Council
Meeting
held remotely
and live-streamed via
Council’s website
Tuesday
14 September 2021
at 6:30pm
Minutes

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
PRESENT:
Chair: Cr Laurence Evans OAM (Mayor)
Councillors: Cr Sonia Castelli (Deputy Mayor)
Cr Alex del Porto
Cr Hanna El Mouallem
Cr Clarke Martin
Cr Jo Samuel-King MBBS
Cr Fiona Stitfold
Officers: Mick Cummins – Chief Executive Officer
Jill Colson – Director Corporate Services
Bryce Craggs – Director Community and Customer Experience
Matthew Cripps – Director City Planning and Amenity
Adam McSwain – Director Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure
Juliana Aya – Acting Manager Transport and Sustainability
Terry Callant – Manager Governance and Corporate Reporting
John Coates – Manager Amenity Protection
Keryn Fisher – Manager Communications, Engagement and Customer
Experience
Jason Stubbs – Manager Commercial Services
Damien Van Trier – Manager Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
Tom Vercoe – Acting Manager Urban Strategy
Page No. 2

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
Table of Contents
1. Prayer
2. Acknowledgement of Original Inhabitants
3. Apologies
4. Disclosure of any Conflict of Interest of any Councillor
5. Adoption and Confirmation of the minutes of previous meeting
6. Public Question Time
7. Petitions to Council
7.1 Petition to delay public consultation period on the CSIRO, Highett
development proposal ................................................................. 9
8. Minutes of Advisory Committees
8.1 Records of meetings held under the auspices of Council .......... 10
8.2 Minutes of the Audit and Risk Committee meeting held on 25
August 2021 .............................................................................. 11
8.3 Minutes of the Audit and Risk Committee meeting held on 30
August 2021 .............................................................................. 12
9. Reports by Special Committees
10. Reports by the Organisation
10.1 Outcomes of the Avoidable Single- Use Plastics Program ........ 15
10.2 Proposed Council land to restrict model aircraft (including drones)
use without a permit .................................................................. 17
10.3 Dendy Street Beach - Proposed Erosion Mitigation .................. 18
10.4 Proposed discontinuance and sale of road adjoining 2, 2a, 4, 6, 8,
10 and 12 Emily Street, Brighton ............................................... 19
10.5 Consideration of 7 Well Street, Brighton, as potential public open
space ......................................................................................... 20
10.6 Opportunities for new Public Open Space in Major Activity Centres
.................................................................................................. 21
10.7 Neighbourhood Character Review ............................................ 22
10.8 Draft Sustainable Buildings and Infrastructure Policy 2021 ....... 23
10.9 2021 Bayside Christmas Carols in the Park .............................. 24
10.10 2021 Winter Allocated Sports Clubs Hardship Support ............. 25
Page No. 3

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
10.11 Municipal Association of Victoria - State Council Meeting - Call for
Motions ...................................................................................... 26
10.12 Advocacy on Planning Reforms ................................................ 27
10.13 Ironman Melbourne 2021 .......................................................... 28
10.14 Council Action Awaiting Report ................................................. 29
11. Reports by Delegates
12. Urgent Business
13. Notices of Motion
13.1 Notice of Motion - 313 - Spacelets ............................................ 31
13.2 Notice of Motion - 314 - Butterfly-friendly Bayside ..................... 32
13.3 Notice of Motion - 315 - Wildlife-friendly gardens and nature strips
.................................................................................................. 33
13.4 Notice of Motion - 316 - Pressure cleaning of Major Activity
Centres ...................................................................................... 34
Page No. 4

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
The Mayor declared the Council Meeting open at 6:30pm and noted that the meeting was
being held remotely via electronic media. The meeting was recorded and streamed live on the
internet.
The Mayor invited Cr El Mouallem to read the prayer.
1. Prayer
Cr El Mouallem read the prayer at the commencement of the meeting.
O God
Bless this City, Bayside,
Give us courage, strength and wisdom,
So that our deliberations,
May be for the good of all,
Amen
2. Acknowledgement of Original Inhabitants
The Mayor invited Cr Martin to read the acknowledgement of the original inhabitants of this
land.
 We acknowledge that the traditional owners and custodians of this land, the Kulin
nation, and we pay our respects to their Elders, past, present and emerging.
 They loved this land, they cared for it and considered themselves to be part of it.
 We acknowledge that we have a responsibility to nurture the land, and sustain it
for future generations.
3. Apologies
There were no apologies submitted to the meeting.
4. Disclosure of any Conflict of Interest of any Councillor
• Cr Castelli declared a general conflict of interest in item 10.3 - Dendy Street Beach –
Proposed Erosion Mitigation.
• Cr El Mouallem declared a general conflict of interest in item 10.5 - .5 7 Well Street
Brighton – potential Public Open Space.
• Cr El Mouallem declared a general conflict of interest in item 13.4 – Pressure
Cleaning of Major Activity Centres.
Page No. 5

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
Procedural Motion
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. considers the meeting to be adjourned for 10 minutes from the commencement of any
technical problem which prevents Council from livestreaming the meeting
2. adjourns the meeting to be reconvened on Wednesday 15 September 2021 at 6:30pm
via livestreaming on Council’s website, in the event livestreaming cannot be resumed
within 30 minutes from the commencement of the technical problem which prevents
livestreaming on Council’s website.
CARRIED
5. Adoption and Confirmation of the minutes of previous meeting
5.1 Confirmation of the Minutes of the Ordinary meeting of Bayside City Council held on
17 August 2021.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr del Porto
That the minutes of the Ordinary meeting of Bayside City Council held on 17 August 2021, as
previously circulated, be confirmed as an accurate record of proceedings.
CARRIED
6. Public Question Time
In accordance with Chapter 2, Section 57 of Council’s Governance Rules, 5 public questions
were submitted to the Meeting. In accordance with the resolution at the June 2021 Ordinary
Meeting of Council, temporary meeting procedures with regard to public question time are in
place:
• All questions received and responses are read out at the meeting within the allotted 15
minute timeframe for public question time.
• All questions and responses read out will be recorded in the minutes.
• A written response will be provided to all questions received.
Page No. 6

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
1. Ms Felicity Frederico OAM
Ms Felicity Frederico OAM submitted a question regarding Elsternwick Park, and Ms
Frederico asked:
Question
This question is in regards to Ovals 3 and 4 at Elsternwick Park. How much did the decision
to not proceed with the ground upgrade and pavilion / lighting installations and other
associated plans cost Council. Please include costs of cancelling contracts, and costs
incurred up until the Council reversed the decision of the previous council.
In order to protect the confidentiality of contracts awarded one final aggregated figure will be
sufficient for this question.
Response from the CEO
The final aggregated total costs incurred by Council in relation to the cancelled Elsternwick
Park Oval 4 pavilion, sportsground and lighting projects was $276,797.88.
2. Mr Bruce Begley
Mr Bruce Begley submitted a question regarding the proposed Council land on which to restrict
model aircraft (including drones) use without a permit, and Mr Begley asked:
Question
How is it intended that this by-law will be policed?
Response from the CEO
Council’s Local Law Clause 65, Operation of Model Aircraft, will be enforced by Council’s Local
Laws officers for any areas Council prescribes as areas requiring a permit to operate a model
aircraft (including drones).
3. Mrs Fiona Marshall
Mrs Fiona Marshall submitted a question regarding Council’s mid-century modern heritage
study, and Mrs Marshall asked:
Question
Regarding the Mid Century modern study Bayside council is undertaking.
Could Bayside Council please confirm if their employees (or any external heritage consultants
they have engaged) conducted site visits with local lobby group members present?
Response from the CEO
Council’s heritage consultant is an independent consultancy firm engaged to undertake site
visits from the public realm. They have not undertaken these site visits with anyone that is not
employed by their firm, including Council officers.
Council employees have not undertaken accompanied site visits as part of the study.
Page No. 7

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
4. Mrs Mary Larsen
Mrs Mary Larsen submitted a question regarding Council’s mid-century modern heritage study,
and Mrs Larsen asked:
Question
What is Council's plan to
(a) deal with this ongoing division which has been inflamed recently by heritage lobbyists
promoting bus tours and walks around Beaumaris
(b) protect the privacy of MCM homeowners, many of them elderly, from architectural voyeurs.
Response from the CEO
Council has a legislative obligation to conserve and protect places of identified heritage
significance. The Minister for Planning has written to Council previously to raise his concerns
in relation to the voluntary nomination process being pursued by Council.
It is within the law for a person to view private property from the public realm and that Council
has no power to be able to stop a person from viewing a private residence from the street.
If a property owner’s house has been identified as a site on an architectural tour or trail and
the owner does not wish for this, Council recommends that the property owner contact the
publisher of this information.
5. Mr George Reynolds
Mr George Reynolds submitted a question regarding green waste disposal, and Mr Reynolds
asked:
Question
Council charges a levy to meet the total costs of operating the waste collection transfer and
disposal of the waste generated by ratepayers and visitors to the City. Why does Council
charge ratepayers $94 per trailer load to receive material such as prunings, that would normally
be put in the green lid bin, that is delivered directly to the transfer station, due to the bin having
insufficient capacity?
Response from the CEO
Council leases the site at 144 Talinga Road, Cheltenham to Copper Rock Investments who
operate the site as a commercial business and are responsible for all operations of the transfer
station including the pricing.
Page No. 8

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
7. Petitions to Council
7.1 PETITION TO DELAY PUBLIC CONSULTATION PERIOD ON THE
CSIRO, HIGHETT DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/277883
A petition has been received from 80 individuals to delay public consultation period on the
CSIRO, Highett development proposal.
(80 valid signatories – 56 residents of suburbs within or partly within Bayside; and 24
residents of suburbs outside of Bayside).
“We the undersigned hereby petition Bayside City Council to:
Move the feedback period for the development proposal at 37 Graham Road and 32
Middleton Street in Highett to after lockdown so the community may discuss the
proposal together and respond in a valid, sensible and coordinated manner;
Share all the information with the community, including tools that will be used by
Councillors to assess the development such as visual modelling and analysis of
compliance with the Highett Structure Plan, so the community can properly digest the
information and provide sensible and valid feedback;
Given the current pandemic lockdown, confirm that Bayside City Councillors are
satisfied that this process has been conducted in the best interest of its constituents;
Note that a complaint has been lodged to the Local Government Inspectorate
requesting an arms length review of this planning process; and
Acknowledge that while we do not know the motives of the parties involved, we are
also concerned that the current environment is the perfect opportunity for parties with
bad intent to pass through planning approvals with minimum public scrutiny.”
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr del Porto
That the petition be referred to the Chief Executive Officer for consideration and response.
CARRIED
Page No. 9

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
8. Minutes of Advisory Committees
8.1 RECORDS OF MEETINGS HELD UNDER THE AUSPICES OF COUNCIL
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/260569
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council notes the records of meetings held under the auspices of Council as required
by the Local Government Act 2020 and Council’s Governance Rules:
• 24 August 2021 Councillor Briefing
• 25 August 2021 Councillor Briefing
• 31 August 2021 Councillor Briefing.
CARRIED
Page No. 10

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
8.2 MINUTES OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING HELD ON
25 AUGUST 2021
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/276037
Moved: Cr El Mouallem Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. notes the minutes of the Audit and Risk Committee meeting held on 25 August 2021
(contained in Confidential Attachment 1)
2. adopts the following recommendations from the Audit and Risk Committee held on 25
August 2021:
Item 9.1.1. Strategic Risk Register Review
That the Audit and Risk Committee:
1. notes the six monthly review of the Strategic Risks and the associated treatment
actions
2. notes the review of the strategic risks by management and recommends to
Council that the review of the Strategic Risks be noted.
Item 9.6.1. – Internal Audit Charter
That the Audit and Risk Committee recommends to Council that the Internal Audit
Charter, as amended with the inclusion of reference to the Audit and Risk Committee
Charter within the Internal Audit Charter, be adopted.
CARRIED
Page No. 11

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
8.3 MINUTES OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING HELD ON
30 AUGUST 2021
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/276135
Moved: Cr El Mouallem Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. notes the minutes of the Audit and Risk Committee meeting held on 30 August 2021
at 8.00am and 30 August 2021 at 8.30am (contained in Confidential Attachment 1)
2. adopts the following recommendations of the Audit and Risk Committee held on 30
August 2021:
Item 9.2.1 – Performance Statement for Year Ending 30 June 2021
That the Audit & Risk Committee:
1. Receives and notes the Performance Statement for year ended 30 June 2021
and recommends to Council, that Council resolves to adopt the Performance
Statement for the financial year ending 30 June 2021 in principle and certify the
Performance Statement in its final form; and
2. Notes the Governance and Management Checklist.
Item 9.2.2 – Annual Financial Statement for year ending 30 June 2021
That the Audit and Risk Committee:
1 receives and notes the Financial Report and draft management representation
letter for the financial year ended 30 June 2021; and
2 recommends to Council that Council resolves, subject to changes recommended
by the Audit & Risk, and anything subsequently agreed between management and
VAGO, give in principle approval of the Financial Report for the financial year
ended 30 June 2021 and certify the Financial Statements in their final form.
Item 10.2 – Election of Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee from 1 October 2021
That the Audit and Risk Committee recommends to Council that independent member,
Mr Geoff Harry be appointed as Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee as from 1
October 2021.
CARRIED
Page No. 12

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
9. Reports by Special Committees
There we no Reports by Special Committees submitted to the meeting.
10. Reports by the Organisation
REQUESTS TO BE HEARD:
The Mayor noted that temporary changes to the Council meeting procedures are in place with
regard to Chapter 2, Division 10 of Council’s Governance Rules (Individual Presentations),
whereby:
• in place of speaking in-person at a Council / Committee meeting, members of the
public may submit a written statement (maximum of four (4) A4 single pages) which
must be sent electronically, or delivered to Council's Corporate Centre, by 9:00am on
the day of the meeting
• written statements received after 9:00am on the day of the meeting will not be
considered by the meeting
• a person may only make a written statement to an Ordinary Meeting/Special
Committee Meeting in relation to an item listed in the agenda under Reports by the
Organisation, and even then not if the item is in the nature of a report summarising a
decision already made by another body; or if the report relates to a Tender Report
relating to the awarding of a contract
• in accordance with Chapter 2, Section 83(1) of Council’s Governance Rules 2020, any
statement which is derogatory, or defamatory of any Councillor, member of Council
staff, or member of the community may not be accepted
• where a person has formally made a written statement in relation to an item on the
agenda, the statement will be provided to all councillors in advance of the meeting
• written statements are not confidential and, following the closure for receipt of
statements, will be published (including first and last names only) on Council’s website
as an attachment to the Agenda for the relevant meeting
• written statements will not be read out at the meeting; however, the Chairperson will
advise the meeting of the number of statements received to each item.
The following individuals submitted written statements to the meeting:
Item 10.2 Proposed Council land to restrict model aircraft (including drones) use
without a permit
1. Mr Rene Martins
Item 10.3 Dendy Street Beach - Proposed Erosion Mitigation
1. Mr Andrew Monotti (on behalf of Brighton Bathing Box Association)
2. Mr Michael Caink
Page No. 13

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
Item 10.5 Consideration of 7 Well Street, Brighton, as potential public open space
1. Mr Miralem Basic
2. Mr John Quinn
3. Mrs Elizabeth Neal
4. Mrs Denise Kinnon
Item 10.7 Neighbourhood Character Review
1. Mr Robert Harwood
2. Mrs Fiona Austin
3. Mr Jamie Paterson (on behalf of Beaumaris Modern Inc.)
4. Ms Caroline Lawton (on behalf of Beaumaris Conservation Society)
Item 10.9 2021 Bayside Christmas Carols in the Park
1. Mr Troy Nicholson
Page No. 14

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
10.1 OUTCOMES OF THE AVOIDABLE SINGLE- USE PLASTICS PROGRAM
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Transport and Sustainability
File No: PSF/21/36 – Doc No: DOC/21/275672
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council implements the following actions for all Council-owned properties over the
next 18 months in the lead up to the Victorian state government single-use plastics ban in
February 2023:
1. Source separation infrastructure
All sporting clubs and community centres to be equipped with quality internal waste
infrastructure to support correct source separation.
2. Organics recycling
All cafes leasing Council land to be encouraged to introduce a third waste stream for
organics recycling to reduce food waste from landfill and allow for compostability of
alternative packaging in the long-term.
3. Replace avoidable single-use plastics
Avoidable single-use plastic items to be removed altogether and replaced by a
reusable or, at best, compostable/recyclable alternative. These items include:
• Plastic drinking straws
Plastic straws to be eliminated entirely and be replaced with
paper/compostable alternative. Additionally, they should only be provided to
patrons upon request as opposed to the public having access to them.
• Take-away serving-ware
Take-away serving-ware to be replaced with compostable alternatives and only
provided to patrons when needed.
• Plastic/polystyrene takeaway packaging
Plastic/polystyrene takeaway packaging to be replaced with compostable
alternatives.
• Individual sachets (soy sauce, tomato sauce, BBQ sauce, honey, etc.)
Individual sachets to be eliminated entirely and be replaced with larger sauce
bottles and reusable or compostable ramekins for business and/or public use.
• Coffee cups
Where possible, reusable cups to be encouraged, and all single-use cups to be
replaced with a compostable alternative that have a polylactic acid (PLA)
lining.
• Soft drinks
Replace plastic bottled soft drinks with aluminium can or glass bottle
alternatives.
4. Water bottles
Council venues (Corporate Centre, Libraries, Gallery and Council Chamber) to cease
all sale, provision, or distribution of bottled water. Alternatively, free access to water
is to be provided.
Sporting clubs, vendors at festivals and others participating in Council events or in
events at Council sites would be permitted to continue bottled water sale; however,
Page No. 15

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
will be required to consider and promote reusable options (e.g. providing jugs and
reusable cups for patron usage, promotion/supply of refillable drinking bottles, etc.).
5. Drinking fountains/water bubblers
All sporting club pavilions to be equipped with a drinking fountain within proximity of
the building.
6. Compatibility of compostable items
Single-use alternative products such as compostable packaging, to be compatible
with the contracted waste processor to ensure the recovery of these products as
opposed to the landfilling of them.
7. Educational resources
a) Develop an interactive webpage with downloadable resources for each of the
three Council facility categories: community centres, sporting clubs, and food
vendors. Resources include downloadable signage on:
• what goes in what bin
• encouraging BYO coffee cup and water bottle
• why we’ve gone plastic free
• information on what constitutes ‘compostable’ and to be weary of
greenwashing when selecting alternatives
• list of plastics to be eliminated
• relevant templates.
b) Develop an education and promotion program to assist Bayside’s Food and Drink
businesses to prepare for the Victoria State-wide single-use plastics ban
scheduled for 2023, including information on organics recycling and the benefits
of waste minimisation.
8. Plastic Free Policy
Develop a plastic free policy as a guiding document for organisations to work towards
in tandem with Council’s assistance and resources.
CARRIED
Page No. 16

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
10.2 PROPOSED COUNCIL LAND TO RESTRICT MODEL AIRCRAFT
(INCLUDING DRONES) USE WITHOUT A PERMIT
City Planning and Amenity - Amenity Protection
File No: PSF/21/28 – Doc No: DOC/21/275668
It is recorded that Mr Rene Martins submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council defers consideration of the ‘Proposed Council land to restrict model aircraft
(including drones)’ to a future meeting of Council, given new information received in relation
to the restricted airspace of Moorabbin Airport that extends over parts of the Bayside City
Council Municipality. Noting a number of the proposed prescribed areas fall within the
Moorabbin Control Zone, further investigation is required to ensure that there are no conflicts
between prescribed areas and areas prohibited under federal CASA regulations.
CARRIED
Page No. 17

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
10.3 DENDY STREET BEACH - PROPOSED EROSION MITIGATION
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation & Wellbeing
File No: PSF/21/19 – Doc No: DOC/21/266950
Cr Castelli declared a general conflict of interest in this item, given her partner owns a
bathing box which may be impacted upon with the erosion mitigation, and Cr Castelli
vacated the online meeting at 6:57pm prior to the discussion on this item.
It is recorded that Mr Andrew Monotti (on behalf of Brighton Bathing Box Association), and
Mr Michael Caink each submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr El Mouallem Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. requests the Mayor and Chief Executive Officer to make an urgent formal approach to
the executive of the Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning seeking
approval to access sand at the adjacent, northern beach area for the purposes of beach
renourishment at Dendy Street Beach
2. seeks independent engineering advice on the impact of removing sand from the northern
beach area
3. receives a further report at the November 2021 Council meeting on the outcomes of the
advocacy and engineering advice.
CARRIED
Page No. 18

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
10.4 PROPOSED DISCONTINUANCE AND SALE OF ROAD ADJOINING 2,
2A, 4, 6, 8, 10 AND 12 EMILY STREET, BRIGHTON
Corporate Services - Commercial Services
File No: PSF/21/26 – Doc No: DOC/21/273753
It is recorded that Cr Castelli re-entered the meeting at 7:47pm.
Moved: Cr El Mouallem Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. abandons the process of discontinuance and sale of the subject road
2. authorises the Director Corporate Services to undertake the necessary procedural
steps to enter into a Licence Agreement with the owners of 2a Emily Street to:
2.1 permit the erection and maintenance of the gate on the constructed road
2.2 require as a condition of the licence that the owners of 2A Emily Street continue
to allow the other adjoining owners to access the constructed road via the gate
2.3 maintain existing vegetation on the existing subject road.
CARRIED
Page No. 19

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
10.5 CONSIDERATION OF 7 WELL STREET, BRIGHTON, AS POTENTIAL
PUBLIC OPEN SPACE
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/274236
Cr El Mouallem declared general conflict of interest in this matter given he owns a property
in close proximity of the subject site, and vacated the online meeting at 7:50pm prior to the
discussion on this item.
It is recorded that Mr Miralem Basic, Mr John Quinn, Mrs Elizabeth Neal, and Mrs Denise
Kinnon each submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor)
That Council:
1. notes this report
2. receives a report at the 21 December 2021 Council Meeting (or earlier) on the
future use of 7 Well Street, Brighton, in parallel with the consideration of Notice of
Motion 310
3. undertakes community engagement on the future of 7 Well Street, Brighton as
public open space, in accordance with Council's previous decision
4. continues to allocate the $40,000 in the operating budget to complete the
community engagement and study, in accordance with Council's previous decision.
CARRIED
Page No. 20

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
10.6 OPPORTUNITIES FOR NEW PUBLIC OPEN SPACE IN MAJOR
ACTIVITY CENTRES
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/274210
It is recorded that Cr El Mouallem re-entered the meeting at 7.56pm.
Moved: Cr El Mouallem Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council:
1. notes the update in relation to Notice of Motion 310
2. endorses the principles for determining the suitability of a site for public open space as
being:
a) safe
b) accessible
c) adaptable
d) connected
e) cultural and social
f) sustainable – subject to the principle being modified to read ‘Sustainable: contains
or is capable of containing canopy trees, forms a habitat link, contributes to
biodiversity or able to increase biodiversity with indigenous plantings’
g) achievable
3. receives a report at the December 2021 Council Meeting (or earlier) responding to all
matters raised within Notice of Motion 310.
CARRIED
Page No. 21

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
10.7 NEIGHBOURHOOD CHARACTER REVIEW
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/274248
It is recorded that Mr Robert Harwood, Mrs Fiona Austin, Mr Jamie Paterson (on behalf of
Beaumaris Modern Inc.), and Ms Caroline Lawton (on behalf of Beaumaris Conservation
Society) each submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council:
1. notes the findings from the Neighbourhood Character Review
2. notes that the Acting Manager Urban Strategy will prepare and submit a planning
scheme amendment to introduce new Schedules in association with the
Neighbourhood Residential Zoned land in Bayside based on the Neighbourhood
Character Review but ensuring that Precinct H2 and H3 are presented as separate
precincts
3. confirms that as part of the planning scheme amendment process, public
consultation will be undertaken for a minimum of 4 weeks
4. receives a report at or before the February 2022 Council Meeting relating to
possible changes to the General Residential Zoned land in Bayside.
CARRIED
Procedural Motion
Moved Cr Martin Seconded Cr del Porto
That the meeting be adjourned for 10 minutes.
CARREID
It is recorded that the meeting was adjourned for 10 minutes at 8:35pm.
Procedural Motion
Moved Cr Martin Seconded Cr del Portro
That the meeting be resumed.
CARREID
It is recorded that the meeting was resumed at 8:45pm.
It is recorded that Cr Samuel-King was not present when the meeting was resumed.
Page No. 22

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
10.8 DRAFT SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS AND INFRASTRUCTURE POLICY
2021
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Environment
File No: PSF/21/36 – Doc No: DOC/21/251396
It is recorded that Cr Samuel-King re-entered the meeting at 8.47pm.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. commences community engagement on the draft Sustainable Building and
Infrastructure Policy 2021
2. presents the outcomes of the community engagement and the final Sustainable
Building and Infrastructure Policy 2021 for Council adoption by December 2021.
CARRIED
Page No. 23

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
10.9 2021 BAYSIDE CHRISTMAS CAROLS IN THE PARK
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation & Wellbeing
File No: PSF/21/19 – Doc No: DOC/21/266564
It is recorded that Mr Troy Nicholson submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. cancels the 2021 Bayside Christmas Carols in the Park due to the impacts of COVID-19
large event restrictions
2. reallocates the 2021 Bayside Christmas Carols in the Park budget of $176,075 to a series
of festive live music and carolling, sound and light installations at key sites across
Bayside.
CARRIED
Page No. 24

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
10.10 2021 WINTER ALLOCATED SPORTS CLUBS HARDSHIP SUPPORT
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation & Wellbeing
File No: PSF/21/19 – Doc No: DOC/21/276482
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr El Mouallem
That Council endorses the Winter Allocated Club Hardship Support Program, providing
Winter Allocated Sports Clubs demonstrating financial hardship with access to a credit of
35% of their 2021 Allocation fees to be offset against their 2022 Allocation fees.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto, Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli (Deputy
Mayor), Hanna El Mouallem, Jo Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona
Stitfold and Laurence Evans OAM (Mayor) (7)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
Page No. 25

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
10.11 MUNICIPAL ASSOCIATION OF VICTORIA - STATE COUNCIL MEETING
- CALL FOR MOTIONS
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/274625
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
That Council endorses the following motions to be put forward at the MAV State Council
Meeting to be held on 12 November 2021:
Mental Health Support for Young People
Proposed Motion
That the MAV calls on the State Government to investigate and explore partnership
opportunities between local government and other agencies supporting Youth Mental Health
services to ensure young people (up to age of 30 years) in isolated and public transport
deprived areas, and overseas students currently residing in Victoria, gain access to
appropriate and relevant youth mental health services that are affordable for young people
to access.
Barbed Wire
Proposed Motion
That the MAV calls on urban municipalities to adopt a policy to manage the use of barbed
wire or eliminate where possible the use of barbed wire on Council-owned land to reduce
impacts to native wildlife.
Uluru Statement from the Heart
Proposed Motion
That the MAV calls upon all Victorian local government authorities to support the Uluru
Statement from the Heart which calls on the Australian people to walk with First Nations in
a people’s movement for Voice, Treaty and Truth, and encourage all councils to write to their
respective Federal Member of Parliament calling on the Australian Government to support
Constitutional Recognition for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and the key
principles of the ‘Uluru Statement from the Heart’.
CARRIED
Page No. 26

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
10.12 ADVOCACY ON PLANNING REFORMS
City Planning and Amenity - Development Services
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/276205
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council supports and advocates with the consortium of Local Government Mayors that:
• it is noted the Victorian government has made a number of changes to the planning
system in the last 18 months and is currently considering further significant
planning reform
• it strongly voices its concern that:
o consultation with community and with local government on any reform
proposals must occur before reforms are considered or introduced
o the community’s voice must remain central in planning decisions
o strong community consultation must be a core part of major planning
decisions
o community voice is critical for ensuring a transparent planning system that
strengthens local neighbourhoods and economies
• it urgently calls on the Minister for Planning to include full consultation with local
governments and community before any planning reform decisions are made
• it urgently calls on the Minister for Planning to include full consultation with local
governments on the Suburban Rail Loop Bill 2021 to:
o understand the impacts on Local Governments role as the Planning
Authority and Responsible Authority
o understand what the potential impacts are on the existing Planning Policy
Framework and proposed Local and Regional planning policy currently
under development
o opportunity to make submissions to the Bill before any decisions are made
• it urgently writes to the Minister for Planning, the shadow Minister for Planning and
all local Members of the Victorian Parliament to advocate Council’s position
• it requests the CEO or delegate coordinate with other local governments in regard
to advocacy.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto, Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli (Deputy
Mayor), Hanna El Mouallem, Jo Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona
Stitfold and Laurence Evans OAM (Mayor) (7)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
Page No. 27

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
10.13 IRONMAN MELBOURNE 2021
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation & Wellbeing
File No: PSF/21/19 – Doc No: DOC/21/266670
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council approves the extended road closure end time endorsed in the Events in Public
Places Policy from 11:30am to 1:00pm on 14 November 2021, and if the event is unable to
proceed on this date due to State Government restrictions, endorses the extended road
closure end time from 11:30am to 1:00pm on 20 March 2022 to conduct the Ironman
Melbourne event.
CARRIED
Page No. 28

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
10.14 COUNCIL ACTION AWAITING REPORT
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/277472
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council notes the Council Action Awaiting Report.
CARRIED
Page No. 29

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
11. Reports by Delegates
1. Association of Bayside Municipalities – Crs Clarke Martin and Fiona Stitfold
Cr Martin indicated that a joint letter from Frankston, Mornington Peninsula, Kingston and
Bayside councils was forwarded to the ABM requesting an urgent meeting of their delegates
to conduct a workshop to develop and influence strategy leading up to the state election for
funding for Port Phillip Bay.
2. Metropolitan Transport Forum – Cr Sonia Castelli
Cr Castelli did not attend the last meeting; however, an officer attended. The meeting featured
two presentations. One was from Infrastructure Victoria talking about the impacts of Covid on
public transport and the transition to Covid normal. This featured discussion on two scenarios
being developed. The second presentation was also from Infrastructure Victoria on their 30-
year Infrastructure Strategy.
3. Municipal Association of Victoria – Cr Alex del Porto
Cr del Porto advised the meeting that he has received an email from the President of the MAV
advising councils that the State Conference and the State Council Meeting would not proceed
in November 2021 given the health restrictions and ensuring members remain safe. It is
proposed that the State Council Meeting will be held in May 2022.
4. Inner South Metropolitan Mayors’ Forum – The Mayor, Cr Laurence Evans OAM
The Mayor indicated that the ISMMF have not had a meeting.
5. Metropolitan Local Government Waste Forum – Cr Clarke Martin
Cr Martin indicated that the Waste Forum have not met since the previous meeting.
6. South East Councils Climate Change Alliance – Crs Clarke Martin and Fiona Stitfold
Cr Martin indicated that the next meeting is scheduled for Thursday 16 September.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Castelli
That the Reports by Delegates be received and noted.
CARRIED
12. Urgent Business
There were no items of Urgent Business submitted to the meeting.
Page No. 30

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
13. Notices of Motion
13.1 NOTICE OF MOTION - 313 - SPACELETS
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/274702
Cr Stitfold sought leave of the meeting to amend her Notice of Motion
Moved Cr del Porto Seconded Cr El Mouallem
That Cr Stitfold be granted leave to amend Notice of Motion 313 – Spacelets.
CARRIED
Moved: Cr Stitfold Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. undertakes an audit of the conditions of all of the Spacelets to ensure they are fit for purpose
and all risk issues are addressed
2. continues the Spacelet program till 31 March 2022 to align with the marquee installation at
the Beaumaris Concourse
3. enters into new agreements with the businesses that wish to continue with Spacelets
outlining the terms of use and including the opportunity for creative shared use arrangement
for all traders irrespective of location within the Activity Centre
4. undertakes the review of the Spacelet program and report the findings to the February 2022
Council Meeting. The review is to:
a. undertake comprehensive community wide consultation process to ascertain community
and businesses attitudes to Spacelets in the activity centres
b. seek an understanding of the usage and economic impacts of the Spacelets associated
with the relevant businesses
c. understand the safety and compliance requirements for the ongoing delivery of the
program
d. understanding of the community preference for the use of the parking spaces (Spacelet,
parking or other purposes)
5. explores opportunities to introduce short term parking within Bayside’s Major Activity Centres
to support “Click and Collect” and “Food Delivery Services” and their associated promotion to
support all traders. This should also be considered as part of the Car Parking Strategy being
undertaken in 2021–22
6. notifies all business that the program is to be extended till March 2022
7. estimates the costs of the program extension being $60K be funded from the Victorian
Government grant and from the Activity Centres Events and Celebrations budget
8. refers the review of the footpath trading guidelines to the February 2022 Council Meeting to
align with the Spacelets review
9. to alleviate parking pressures in Melrose Street, immediately removes the double Spacelets
in front of 33 – 35 Melrose Street (bookstore) and reduces the size and relocates the
spacelet from the front of 15 – 17 Melrose Street to the front of 19 Melrose Street.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto, Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli (Deputy Mayor),
Hanna El Mouallem, Jo Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona Stitfold and
Laurence Evans OAM (Mayor) (7)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
Page No. 31

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
13.2 NOTICE OF MOTION - 314 - BUTTERFLY-FRIENDLY BAYSIDE
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/278383
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council receives a report at the April 2022 Council meeting detailing:
1. outcomes and recommendations of a review of various herbicides, pesticides and
poisons (with a particular focus on rodent poison) in Council’s open space, with a
particular focus on the use of Glyphosate
2. a plan to work with environmental Friends Groups to audit the existence of and
protect current mistletoe populations within Bayside and the possible trial of a
Mistletoe Propagation Project within Bayside
3. opportunities for the planting of indigenous flowers and grasses with particular
benefits to butterflies and other insects.
CARRIED
Page No. 32

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
13.3 NOTICE OF MOTION - 315 - WILDLIFE-FRIENDLY GARDENS AND
NATURE STRIPS
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/278444
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council receives a report to the February 2022 Council Meeting detailing a plan for
Council to actively promote wildlife-friendly gardens, including consideration of:
1. promoting there is no longer a need for permits for indigenous plantings in nature
strips
2. partnering with community groups to run a series of webinars on wildlife-friendly
gardening
3. encouraging wildlife-friendly cat ownership, including cat containment, and
information about the cat curfew
4. working with residents to create gardens that deter noisy miners and provide refuge
for small native birds.
CARRIED
Page No. 33

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 14 September 2021
13.4 NOTICE OF MOTION - 316 - PRESSURE CLEANING OF MAJOR
ACTIVITY CENTRES
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/278450
It is recorded that Cr El Mouallem declared a general conflict of interest in this item given
that he owns a property within Church Street Major Activity Centre, and vacated the online
meeting at 10:40pm prior to the discussion on this item, and did not return for the
remainder of the meeting.
Cr del Porto sought leave of the meeting to amend his Notice of Motion
Moved Cr Martin Seconded Cr Stitfold
That Cr del Porto be granted leave to amend Notice of Motion 316 – Pressure Cleaning of
Major Activity Centres.
CARRIED
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council receives a report at the October 2021 Council Meeting providing cost and
resource implications to increase the pressure cleaning service for the four major activity
centres (Bay Street, Church Street, Hampton and Sandringham). That this report includes
two potential options for Council to consider: increasing the pressure cleaning from quarterly
to monthly; or increasing the pressure washing from quarterly to weekly and considers an
approach to pressure cleaning that minimises environmental impacts .
CARRIED
The Mayor declared the meeting closed at 10:48pm.
Page No. 34

