Council
Meeting
held remotely and
live-streamed via
Council’s website
Tuesday
15 June 2021
at 6:30pm
Minutes

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
PRESENT:
Chair: Cr Laurence Evans OAM (Mayor)
Councillors: Cr Sonia Castelli (Deputy Mayor)
Cr Alex del Porto
Cr Hanna El Mouallem
Cr Clarke Martin
Cr Jo Samuel-King MBBS
Cr Fiona Stitfold
Officers: Mick Cummins – Chief Executive Officer
Jill Colson – Director Corporate Services
Bryce Craggs – Director Community and Customer Experience
Adam McSwain – Director Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure
Hamish Reid – Director City Planning and Amenity
Juliana Aya – Acting Manager Transport and Sustainability
Terry Callant – Manager Governance and Corporate Reporting
John Coates – Manager Amenity Protection
Matthew Cripps – Acting Manager Urban Strategy
Jason Stubbs – Manager Commercial Services
Damien Van Trier – Manager Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
Robert Lamb – Governance Officer
Page No. 2

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
Table of Contents
1. Prayer
2. Acknowledgement of Original Inhabitants
3. Apologies
4. Disclosure of any Conflict of Interest of any Councillor
5. Adoption and Confirmation of the minutes of previous meeting
6. Public Question Time
7. Petitions to Council
7.1 Joint Letter - Removal of spacelets in Melrose Street Sandringham
.................................................................................................. 12
7.2 Petition to retain permanently the extended footpath trading areas
and spacelets in Melrose Street and close off the east end of
Melrose Street, Sandringham .................................................... 13
7.3 Petition to install a roundabout with a pedestrian crossing at the
intersection of Head and Brickwood Streets, Brighton .............. 14
8. Minutes of Advisory Committees
8.1 Assembly of Councillors Record ................................................ 15
8.2 Minutes of the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee
meeting held on 12 May 2021 ................................................... 16
9. Reports by Special Committees
10. Reports by the Organisation
10.1 Governance Rules 2020 (2021 Review) .................................... 19
10.2 Neighbourhood Amenity Local Law 2021 .................................. 20
10.3 Mid-Century Modern Heritage Study - Update .......................... 24
10.4 Final Affordable Housing Strategy 2021 .................................... 25
10.5 Hampton Community Infrastructure Feasibility and Masterplan 26
10.6 Sandringham & Black Rock Streetscape Upgrades .................. 27
10.7 Establishing an Environmentally Sustainable Development Policy
for Bayside ................................................................................ 28
10.8 Warm Water Pool Investigations - Update ................................ 29
10.9 Wilson Recreation Reserve - Brighton Grammar - Update ........ 30
10.10 Building Reform ......................................................................... 31
Page No. 3

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.11 Road Management Plan Review ............................................... 32
10.12 Municipal Emergency Management Planning Committee Reform
Process ..................................................................................... 33
10.13 Response to Notice of Motion - 308 - Grey Headed Flying Fox
Protection Measures ................................................................. 34
10.14 Commitment to Procurement Australia's Retail Energy Tender
2021 .......................................................................................... 35
10.15 Investigation of the need for the installation of a pedestrian
crossing on Well Street between St Andrews Street and Carpenter
Street, Brighton ......................................................................... 36
10.16 South East Metropolitan Councils - Advanced Waste Project ... 37
10.17 Sandringham Hospital Strategic Agreement - Update ............... 38
10.18 Economic Development and Tourism Strategy - Update ........... 39
10.19 Proposed Lease of One Telecommunication Site to Telstra ..... 40
10.20 Council Action Awaiting Report ................................................. 41
10.21 Undergrounding Powerlines ...................................................... 42
11. Reports by Delegates
12. Urgent Business
13. Notices of Motion
13.1 Notice of Motion - 311 - Responsible dog ownership and
behaviours ................................................................................. 44
14. Confidential Business
14.1 Dendy Beach Pavilion Project - Update on Legal Proceedings . 45
Page No. 4

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
The Mayor declared the Council Meeting open at 6:30pm and advised that the meeting is being
recorded and streamed live on the internet.
1. Prayer
Cr del Porto read the prayer at the commencement of the meeting.
O God
Bless this City, Bayside,
Give us courage, strength and wisdom,
So that our deliberations,
May be for the good of all,
Amen
2. Acknowledgement of Original Inhabitants
Cr Castelli to read the acknowledgement of the original inhabitants of this land.
 We acknowledge that the original inhabitants of this land that we call Bayside
were the Boon Wurrung people of the Kulin nation.
 They loved this land, they cared for it and considered themselves to be part of it.
 We acknowledge that we have a responsibility to nurture the land, and sustain it
for future generations.
3. Apologies
There were no apologies submitted to the meeting.
4. Disclosure of any Conflict of Interest of any Councillor
Cr El Mouallem declared a general conflict of interest in Item 10.15 (Investigation of the need
for the installation of a pedestrian crossing on Well Street between St Andrews Street and
Carpenter Street, Brighton) as Cr El Mouallem owns a property on Well Street between St
Andrew Street and Carpenter Street, Brighton.
Page No. 5

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
Procedural Motion
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Castelli
That Council:
1. considers the meeting to be adjourned for 10 minutes from the commencement of any
technical problem which prevents Council from livestreaming the meeting
2. adjourns the meeting to be reconvened on Wednesday 16 June 2021 at 6:30pm via
livestreaming on Council’s website, in the event livestreaming cannot be resumed
within 30 minutes from the commencement of the technical problem which prevents
livestreaming on Council’s website.
CARRIED
5. Adoption and Confirmation of the minutes of previous meeting
5.1 Confirmation of the Minutes of the meeting of Bayside City Council held on 18 May
2021.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That the minutes of the meeting of Bayside City Council held on 18 May 2021, as previously
circulated, be confirmed as an accurate record of proceedings.
CARRIED
Page No. 6

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
6. Public Question Time
In accordance with Chapter 2, Section 57 of Council’s Governance Rules, 8 public questions
were submitted to the Meeting. In accordance with the resolution at the March 2020
Ordinary Meeting of Council, temporary meeting procedures with regard to public question
time are in place:
• All questions received and responses are read out at the meeting within the allotted 15
minute timeframe for public question time.
• All questions and responses read out will be recorded in the minutes.
• A written response will be provided to all questions received.
1. Mr Chris Morfis
Mr Chris Morfis submitted a question regarding a planning permit issued by the Department
of Environment Land Water and Planning, and Mr Morfis asked:
Question
A recent planning decision by the Department of Environment Land Water & Planning on
APPLICATION FOR PLANNING PERMIT PA2001050
120-124 SOUTH ROAD, BRIGHTON EAST has granted a permit for the development of site
which already causes major disruptions of traffic in the Castlefield precinct.
a) How is Council able to provide support to local residents and ensure that their needs
are met and recognised. The school has already started cutting down native gums
which are home to native bird populations.
b) How can you help us save our residential streets, save flora & fauna by getting
Hailbury to push traffic onto South Rd not residential streets.
Response from the CEO
The State Government Planning Scheme Amendment VC180 provides specific provisions for
non-government schools, resulting in the Minister for Planning being the responsible
authority for the Haileybury School application.
a) Council will review any referrals from the Minister for Planning and will continue to
make representation consistent with the needs of local residents and Councils planning
policies.
b) Any traffic related concerns raised directly with Council’s traffic engineering team will
be investigated and appropriate traffic management requirements implemented.
Page No. 7

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
2. Mr Jeff Naylor
Mr Jeff Naylor submitted a question regarding budgeted funding for Disability Access and
Inclusion, and Mr Naylor asked:
Question
I am not against any sport, however, Bayside City Council has 'once again' budgeted an
exorbitant amount of our ratepayer money on sporting pavillions, venues and mostly non
inclusive facilities.
This disproportionate spend has been going on for years leaving our most vulnerable on the
sidelines. We are two decades behind the more progressive Councils in Disability Access
and Inclusion and they already have good momentum.
The golden sandbelt of Bayside should be an exemplar in Disability Access & Inclusion.
When will Council commit REAL budgeted funds ($5M/yr minimum) in a separate budget line
dedicated purely to Disability Access and Inclusion initiatives so meaningful work can begin
and we can start our climb to the top quartile of Victorian Councils?
Response from the CEO
Council provides a range of infrastructure and programs to support access and inclusion in
Bayside. Council will invest $37.5 million in sporting pavilions in the draft 2021–22 budget
which has a focus on court-based sports including netball and basketball. The hard playing
surface and non-contact nature makes these sports the most accessible and inclusive of all
sports in Bayside. Furthermore all sporting facilities built by Council are Disability
Discrimination Act compliant and include parking and pedestrian paths to ensure accessibility
reaches beyond the entrance of any building.
Council has also undertaken improvements at its kindergartens to improve accessibility and
support children with additional needs, and funds the Bayside Toy Library to support children
with development delay and physical disabilities.
Council is also improving accessibility of its website and provides an assessment officer to
support eligible residents transitioning to NDIS as well as provide ongoing support for those
who are not eligible. Council also provides training of its aged and disability services staff to
support the needs of older people with dementia and their carers and a range of other
disabilities experienced by older people such as vision and hearing impairment.
Council acknowledges that we can do better to support greater levels of access and inclusion
for people living in and visiting Bayside. The recent formation of the Disability Access and
Inclusion Advisory Committee is recognition of this and provides Council with a platform to
obtain feedback and advice from a group of people with lived experience of disability.
Page No. 8

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
3. Mrs Janice Cook
Mr Janice Cook submitted a question regarding parking availability in Hampton, and Ms
Cook asked:
Question
With so much activity at the Hampton Hub, how can Council be so confident there will be
sufficient car parking spaces covering a two hour visit by motorists.?
Response from the CEO
The development of the Hampton Community Infrastructure Masterplan has taken into
consideration transport and movement trends to forecast future needs. This approach will
enable Council to plan for expected increases in short-term parking supply.
As particular land uses change in the area, Council will consider the impact on car parking in
parallel with the concept design stage and how Council can best respond to ensure that
visitor parking is not compromised through the proposed works.
4. Dr Zena Burgess
Dr Zena Burgess submitted a question regarding Council’s Mid-Century Modern Heritage
Study and Dr Burgess asked:
Question
Re item 10.3 Mid Century Modern Heritage Study
Given several owner occupiers have lived in their homes for over 50 years as they built them
as family homes, how are the wishes of these elderly and frail residents going to be
ascertained and taken into consideration by the consultant /Bayside council?
Response from the CEO
As part of the Mid-Century Modern Heritage Study, Council’s Community Engagement Plan
will ensure all property owners of affected property owners are afforded an opportunity to
share their views. Opportunities will also be provided to owners to meet Council officers to
discuss any questions or concerns about a potential Heritage Overlay.
Page No. 9

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
5. Mr George Reynolds
Mr George Reynolds submitted a question regarding Council’s proposed Neighbourhood
Amenity Local Law, and Mr Reynolds asked:
Question
In Council's making of its "New Local Law", debate has moved into a second Ordinary
Meeting to allow further investigation. Has this investigation now demonstrated that:
1) While Council currently has authority to make Local Laws under s111 of the Local
Government Act 1989, such authority is extinguished when the relevant section of The
Act is repealed on 1st July 2021, and
2) The Neighbourhood Amenity Local Law 2021, if to be validly declared to commence on
1st July 2021, must now be prepared in the manner set out in Part 3, Div 3, s71-86 of
the Local Government Act 2020?
Response from the CEO
Local Laws made from 1 July 2021 will follow the requirements of the Local Government Act
2020.
The statutory processes required to make Neighbourhood Amenity Local Law 2021 will be
completed by 30 June 2021 in accordance with statutory requirements of the Local
Government Act 1989. As such, it will be validly made and can commence to operate from 1
July 2021.
6. Mr George Reynolds
Mr George Reynolds submitted a further question regarding Council’s proposed
Neighbourhood Amenity Local Law, and Mr Reynolds asked:
Question
In the revised agenda item 10.2, Neighbourhood Amenity Local Law, key documents appear
to have been withheld.
1) Is it intended that the Legal Certificate required to be tabled under s74 (1)-(3) of the
Local Government Act 2020, is not to be obtained, and
2) Is the "New Local Law" adopting or abandoning the requirements of s72(g) of The Act?
Response from the CEO
The proposed Local law is expected to be adopted before 30 June 2021; therefore, the
current statutory process is set out in the Local Government Act 1989 and not the Local
Government Act 2020. As such, a Legal Certificate is not required and section 72(g) is not
relevant.
Page No. 10

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
7. Mr Kevin Howard
Mr Kevin Howard submitted a question regarding item 10.9 on the agenda – Wilson
Recreation Reserve – Brighton Grammar Update, and Mr Howard asked:
Question
In the 16 February 2021 Ordinary Meeting it was agreed that Council officers would consult
with the community and present a report “no later than June 2021”.
1) Why has the community consultation and report regarding this matter been delayed?
2) Given that Council have not been able to conduct community consultation as required,
why have Council officers already engaged in discussions with Brighton Cricket Club?
Response from the CEO
1) Community consultation has been delayed due to a number of factors including staff
resourcing issues brought about by unexpected circumstances and the impacts of
Covid lockdowns.
2) As a known stakeholder with a club-appointed Council Liaison, Council has regular
contact with the Brighton Cricket Club on a variety of operational and strategic issues
that may impact the Club. It was during one of these contacts that the Club has been
initially consulted with regarding the Wilson Recreation Reserve proposal.
8. Mr Kevin Howard
Mr Kevin Howard submitted a question regarding Council’s proposed Neighbourhood
Amenity Local Law, and Mr Howard asked:
Question
My question relates to BAYSIDE CITY COUNCIL - NEIGHBOURHOOD AMENITY LOCAL
LAW 2021, section 66, sub-section 12, which is:
66. A person must not, without a permit, while present on any municipal reserve:
(12) enter or remain within or upon the playing area of a municipal reserve during the
progress of a sports match or sports gathering unless such person is a player, competitor or
official;
1) What is the definition of a “sports gathering”?
2) When the consultation takes place regarding Wilson Recreation Reserve and Brighton
Grammar’s proposal for a nine year licence, will the briefing to the community draw
their attention to local law section 66, sub-section 12?
Response from the CEO
1) A ‘sports gathering’ will continue to be interpreted as per the current Local Law, being
an organised sporting event with a Council permit, such as organised by a school or
formal sporting club. It does not include informal groups, such as a family.
2) The community will be provided with relevant information as part of informing the
consultation process for the Wilson Recreation Reserve proposal.
Page No. 11

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
7. Petitions to Council
7.1 JOINT LETTER - REMOVAL OF SPACELETS IN MELROSE STREET
SANDRINGHAM
City Planning and Amenity - Development Services
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/168548
A Joint Letter has been received from 9 shop owners from the Sandringham Village shopping
Centre requesting spacelets in Melrose to be removed.
“We, the undersigned wish to make it unequivocally clear that we do not wish for the
parking spaces currently used by only a few traders in Melrose Street to continue”.
Moved: Cr Stitfold Seconded: Cr del Porto
That the joint letter be received and a report be presented to Council by the August 2021
Council meeting for consideration.
CARRIED
Page No. 12

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
7.2 PETITION TO RETAIN PERMANENTLY THE EXTENDED FOOTPATH
TRADING AREAS AND SPACELETS IN MELROSE STREET AND
CLOSE OFF THE EAST END OF MELROSE STREET, SANDRINGHAM
City Planning and Amenity - Development Services
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/171339
A petition has been received from 91 individuals requesting to retain permanently the
extended footpath areas and the existing spacelets in Melrose Street Sandringham and
close off the east end of Melrose Street, Sandringham.
(91 valid signatories – 81 residents of suburbs within or partly within Bayside; and 10
residents of suburbs outside of Bayside)
“We the undersigned hereby petition Bayside City Council to retain permanently the
extended footpath trading areas and the existing spacelets in Melrose Street
Sandringham, and to close the east end of Melrose Street incorporating the existing
spacelets out the front of Ammos Greek Tavern, Village Import, Sidebar and Ulysses
Book Store to traffic thereby creating public open space.”
Moved: Cr Stitfold Seconded: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor)
That the petition be received and a report be presented to Council by the August 2021
Council meeting for consideration.
CARRIED
Page No. 13

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
7.3 PETITION TO INSTALL A ROUNDABOUT WITH A PEDESTRIAN
CROSSING AT THE INTERSECTION OF HEAD AND BRICKWOOD
STREETS, BRIGHTON
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/180115
An online petition has been received from 71 individuals requesting that Council install a
roundabout with a pedestrian crossing at the intersection of Head and Brickwood Streets,
Brighton.
(71 valid signatories – 24 residents of suburbs within or partly within Bayside; and 47
residents of suburbs outside of Bayside)
‘We the undersigned hereby petition Bayside City Council to install a roundabout
at the intersection of Head Street and Brickwood Streets in Brighton, with a
pedestrian crossing.’
Moved: Cr El Mouallem Seconded: Cr del Porto
That the petition be referred to the Chief Executive Officer for consideration and response
in accordance with the:
• Local Area Management Policy
• Safe routes to school program
• Integrated Transport Strategy
• Climate Emergency Action Plan
• Bayside 2050 Community Vision
• Bayside Walking Strategy.
CARRIED
Page No. 14

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
8. Minutes of Advisory Committees
8.1 ASSEMBLY OF COUNCILLORS RECORD
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/146669
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council notes the Assembly of Councillors record/s submitted as required by the Local
Government Act 1989:
• 4 May 2021 Councillor Briefing
• 25 May 2021 Strategic Issues Discussion
• 1 June 2021 Councillor Briefing.
CARRIED
Page No. 15

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
8.2 MINUTES OF THE BAYSIDE ARTS AND GALLERY ADVISORY
COMMITTEE MEETING HELD ON 12 MAY 2021
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/179595
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. notes the minutes of the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee meeting held
on 12 May 2021
2. adopts the following recommendations of the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory
Committee meeting of 12 May 2021:
6.3 Acquisition Proposal for Bayside Arts and Heritage Collection
That the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee:
1. recommends Council gratefully accepts the proposed donation made by Dr
Andrew Firestone of Port Phillip Bay Evening by Arthur Boyd for the Bayside
Arts and Heritage Collection
2. acknowledges the donation as per Council approved process for donated works.
3. presents a letter under the seal of Council to Ms Angelina Beninati and Ms Tiziana
Borghese for their contribution to the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee.
CARRIED
Page No. 16

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
9. Reports by Special Committees
There were no reports by Special Committees submitted to the meeting.
10. Reports by the Organisation
REQUESTS TO BE HEARD:
The Mayor noted that temporary changes to the Council meeting procedures are in place with
regard to Chapter 2, Division 10 of Council’s Governance Rules (Individual Presentations),
whereby:
• in place of speaking in-person at a Council / Committee meeting, members of the
public may submit a written statement (maximum of four (4) A4 single pages) which
must be sent electronically, or delivered to Council's Corporate Centre, by 9:00am on
the day of the meeting
• written statements received after 9:00am on the day of the meeting will not be
considered by the meeting
• a person may only make a written statement to an Ordinary Meeting/Special
Committee Meeting in relation to an item listed in the agenda under Reports by the
Organisation, and even then not if the item is in the nature of a report summarising a
decision already made by another body; or if the report relates to a Tender Report
relating to the awarding of a contract
• in accordance with Chapter 2, Section 83(1) of Council’s Governance Rules 2020, any
statement which is derogatory, or defamatory of any Councillor, member of Council
staff, or member of the community may not be accepted
• where a person has formally made a written statement in relation to an item on the
agenda, the statement will be provided to all councillors in advance of the meeting
• written statements are not confidential and, following the closure for receipt of
statements, will be published (including first and last names only) on Council’s website
as an attachment to the Agenda for the relevant meeting
• written statements will not be read out at the meeting; however, the Chairperson will
advise the meeting of the number of statements received to each item.
Page No. 17

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
The following individuals submitted written statements to the meeting:
Item 10.1 Governance Rules 2020 (2021 Review)
1. Mr George Reynolds (on behalf of Bayside Residents Group - Ratepayers
Victoria Inc).
2. Ms Pauline Reynolds
Item 10.3 Mid-Century Modern Heritage Study - Update
1. Dr Zena Burgess
2. Mrs Fiona Marshall
3. Mr Matt Marshall
4. Mrs Mary Larsen
5. Mr Peter Corfield
Item 10.5 Hampton Community Infrastructure Feasibility and Masterplan
1. Dr Peter Betts
2. Mr Tony Batt (on behalf of Hampton Neighbourhood Association)
Item 10.6 Sandringham & Black Rock Streetscape Upgrades
1. Mr Graeme Holmes
Page No. 18

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.1 GOVERNANCE RULES 2020 (2021 REVIEW)
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/168389
It is recorded that Mr George Reynolds (on behalf of Bayside Residents Group - Ratepayers
Victoria Inc), and Ms Pauline Reynolds each submitted a written statement in relation to this
item.
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. adopts the revised Governance Rules 2020 referenced as Attachment 3 to this report,
noting the amendments (in full) as provided in Attachment 2
2. places a copy of the revised Governance Rules 2020 on Council’s website and a copy
provided to each Councillor
3. acknowledges the current COVID-19 directions and continues to follow the temporary
Council and Committee meeting procedures enacted at the March 2020 Ordinary
Meeting of Council (and later adapted) concerning public participation (with the
exception that public questions must be sent electronically or delivered to Council’s
Corporate Centre by 9:00 am on the day immediately preceding the day of the Council
Meeting) until such time as public health directions allow
4. reintroduces limited public attendance in the Council Chamber upon relaxation of
Victoria’s ‘COVIDSafe’ settings, based on applicable density guidelines
5. reserves the right, where required, under the Local Government Act 2020 to conduct
Council and Committee meetings remotely via electronic means on the basis that all
meetings are live-streamed online.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto, Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli (Deputy
Mayor), Fiona Stitfold and Laurence Evans OAM (Mayor) (5)
AGAINST: Crs Hanna El Mouallem and Jo Samuel-King MBBS (2)
CARRIED
Page No. 19

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.2 NEIGHBOURHOOD AMENITY LOCAL LAW 2021
City Planning and Amenity - Amenity Protection
File No: FOL/20/1664 – Doc No: DOC/21/174692
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. adopts the Neighbourhood Amenity Local Law 2021 (the New Local Law), in the
form of Attachment 2 to the accompanying officer report, subject to the following
changes to Attachment 2:
A) replace clause 35 with the following:
Storage of Trailers, boats and caravans
A person must not, without a permit:
(1) keep or store any heavy vehicle or long vehicle upon
any road or on any other property (whether private
property or Council Land); or
(2) occupy any road or Council Land by storing on it any
boat, trailer or caravan for a continuous period of 28
days or more or for more than 56 days in a period of
three consecutive months.
B) insert a new clause 65, headed Operation of Model Aircraft, as
follows:
(1) Council may prescribe Council Land or part of
Council Land to be Council Land or part of Council
Land on which a person must not operate or allow
another person to operate a model aircraft without a
permit.
(2) A person must not, without a permit, operate or allow
another person to operate a model aircraft while on
any Council Land or any part of Council Land
prescribed under sub-clause (1).
C) renumber what appears as clause 65 in Attachment 1 as clause 66,
and renumber all subsequent clauses and references to those
clauses throughout the New Local Law.
D) insert in clause 10, between the definitions of “Manager” and
“motor bike” or “other motorised recreational vehicle”:
“model aircraft” means any airborne device modelled on an
aeroplane or aircraft and which is powered, and includes a drone;
E) amend Schedule 1 to specify 2 penalty units as the infringement
penalty for a breach of what becomes clause 65.
Page No. 20

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
F) make consequential amendments to the Table of Contents to
reflect such changes.
2. adopts the Local Law Guidelines under Clause 9(1) of the New Local Law in the
form of Attachment 3 to the officer report, subject to the following changes from
what currently appears in Attachment 3:
A) add the following to what currently appears in Guideline 35:
In administering clause 35(2) of the Local Law, an Authorised
Officer or a Delegated Officer is entitled to regard a boat, trailer or
caravan as having continued to occupy a road or Council Land and
to be stored there notwithstanding that the boat, trailer or caravan
has been moved a short distance along the same road or Council
Land in an attempt to demonstrate that the boat, trailer or caravan
has been used and is not being stored.
In determining whether to grant a permit to occupy the road or
Council Land under clause 35(2), an Authorised Officer or a
Delegated Officer must consider any exceptional circumstances,
the duration of time proposed, the impact on amenity, safety and
parking in the relevant area, the likely effect on occupiers of
adjoining properties and any other matter that the Authorised
Officer or a Delegated Officer reasonably believes is relevant to the
application.
Note: Council seeks to ensure boats, trailers or caravans are not
stored for long periods on roads or Council Land unless in
exceptional circumstances.
B) insert the following as Guideline 65, under the heading “MODEL
AIRCRAFT”:
In deciding whether to prescribe Council Land or part of Council
Land as Council Land or part of Council Land on which a person
must not, without a permit, operate or allow another person to
operate a model aircraft, Council must take into account:
(1) the nature of the Council Land (or part of Council Land);
(2) whether the Council Land (or part of Council Land) is an
environmentally sensitive area or habitat for wildlife;
(3) whether there are any flora or fauna on the Council Land (or
part of Council Land); and
(4) the extent to which the Council Land (or part of Council Land) is
frequented by members of the public, and by any animals under
the control of members of the public.
In determining whether to grant a permit to allow the operation of
model aircraft on Council Land or part of Council Land under
clause 65, an Authorised Officer or a Delegated Officer must have
regard to:
Page No. 21

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
(1) the location the model aircraft is to be flown and proximity to
other people, environmentally sensitive areas and wildlife
habitats;
(2) the risk posed to the public, property and the environment; and
(3) any other matter the Authorised Officer or Delegated Officer
reasonably believes is relevant to the application.
C) renumber what appears as Guideline 65 in the Attachment 2 as
Guideline 66, and renumber all subsequent Guidelines and
references to those Guidelines throughout the Local Law
Guidelines.
D) make consequential amendments to the Table of Contents to
reflect such changes.
3. authorises the Chief Executive Officer to:
(a) give public notice of the making of the New Local Law, in accordance with
section 119(3) of the Local Government Act 1989 (the Act)
(b) forward a copy of the New Local Law to the Minister for Local Government,
in accordance with section 119(4) of the Act
(c) write to each person who made a submission under section 223 of the Act
concerning the New Local Law, advising them of Council’s decision to make
the New Local Law and reasons for doing so (the reasons are set out in the
officer report)
4. amends any reference in any Council document to the Neighbourhood Amenity
Local Law 2012 (the Previous Local Law) so that it becomes, from 1 July 2021
onwards, a reference to the New Local Law, and, without limiting the generality of
this:
(a) in the Management of Tree Protection on Private Property Policy 2015 the
reference to Clause 36 of the Previous Local Law be amended from 1 July
2021 onwards so as to be a reference to Clause 21 of the New Local Law
(b) in the Footpath Trading Policy 2018 the reference to Part 7 of the Previous
Local Law be amended from 1 July 2021 onwards so as to be a reference to
Division 1 of Part 4 of the New Local Law
5. prescribes the area coloured red in Attachment 7 to the officer report (being the
entire Foreshore Reserve within the municipal district, and a municipal place
within the meaning of the New Local Law) as a smoke-free area for the purposes
of Clause 60 of the New Local Law
6. prescribes the area coloured red in the attachment to this resolution (being a
reduced area of the Red Bluff Cliffs Foreshore) as a municipal reserve in respect
of which, and pursuant to Clause 58 of the New Local Law, a person must not,
while in or on that municipal reserve:
(a) consume any liquor; or
Page No. 22

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
(b) have in his or her possession or control any liquor other than liquor in a
container with an unbroken seal
at any time or on any day
7. authorises any member of Victoria Police to enforce Clause 58 of the New Local
Law and authorises the Chief Executive Officer to publish a notice in the Victoria
Government Gazette advising that any member of Victoria Police may enforce
that Clause.
CARRIED
Page No. 23

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.3 MID-CENTURY MODERN HERITAGE STUDY - UPDATE
City Planning and Amenity -
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/162005
It is recorded that Dr Zena Burgess, Mrs Fiona Marshall, Mr Matt Marshall, Mrs Mary
Larsen, and Mr Peter Corfield each submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor)
That Council notes the progress of the Mid-Century Modern Heritage Study.
CARRIED
Page No. 24

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.4 FINAL AFFORDABLE HOUSING STRATEGY 2021
City Planning and Amenity -
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/162081
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. adopts the final Affordable Housing Strategy 2021 and Background Report
2. writes to all submitters to thank them for their contribution
3. delegates the Manager Urban Strategy to prepare an amendment to the Bayside
Planning Scheme to implement the Affordable Housing Strategy 2021.
CARRIED
Page No. 25

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.5 HAMPTON COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE FEASIBILITY AND
MASTERPLAN
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/170097
It is recorded that Dr Peter Betts, and Mr Tony Batt (on behalf of Hampton Neighbourhood
Association) each submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Stitfold Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
That Council:
1. adopts the Hampton Masterplan acknowledging the declaration of a Climate
Emergency and need to respond appropriately
2. commences the development of a functional brief with key stakeholders to inform the
floorspace requirements of the future Community Hub
3. following the development of the functional brief, begins a concept design process to
guide the configuration of buildings and open space in the Willis Street precinct
4. ensures that as part of the Concept Design, it considers:
a. creation of a detailed Communications and Engagement Plan that includes the
appointment of a community reference group to oversee the design stage of
the projects
b. opportunities for an architectural design competition, with a particular focus on
innovative environmental design
c. the footprint, height and siting of the future community hub building with
respect to the environment
d. the materials to be used in the construction of the building, including pre-
fabricated construction options, opportunities for the recycling and reuse of
building materials through demolition of existing buildings
e. opportunities to maximise green infrastructure and technologies through the
building and open space using best practice ESD
f. opportunities to maximise greening of the open space and consider appropriate
plantings focusing on indigenous and bio diverse plantings and cultural
symbols
g. reconfiguration to the road network to ensure that sustainable transport is
prioritised in the Willis Street Precinct
5. writes to stakeholders to advise them of Council’s decision.
CARRIED
Page No. 26

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.6 SANDRINGHAM & BLACK ROCK STREETSCAPE UPGRADES
City Planning and Amenity - Development Services
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/173908
It is recorded that Mr Graeme Holmes submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Stitfold Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. defers the detailed design and documentation phase associated with the Sandringham
and Black Rock streetscape projects to 2025–26 to be reconsidered as part of Capital
Works Program at that time
2. considers minor improvements works to the Sandringham Village and Black Rock Village
activity centres on a case by case basis and funded from the existing Capital Works or
other appropriate budget line items
3. notes that the Economic Development team continue the delivery of the Bayside Local
Economic Recovery Plan with a focus on place making opportunities
4. continues to monitor our public assets within the Activity Centres and ensures that they
are maintained to a safe and serviceable standard.
CARRIED
Page No. 27

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.7 ESTABLISHING AN ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR BAYSIDE
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/173922
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
That Council notes the update in relation to developing an Environmentally Sustainable
Development Policy.
CARRIED
Page No. 28

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.8 WARM WATER POOL INVESTIGATIONS - UPDATE
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation & Wellbeing
File No: PSF/21/19 – Doc No: DOC/21/169226
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr El Mouallem
That Council:
1. considers the inclusion of an additional stand alone hydrotherapy pool as part of
the feasibility study into a warm water pool facility
2. receives a report detailing the findings of discussions with commercial providers
regarding a Warm Water Pool and Hydrotherapy Pool within the municipality at the
October 2021 Council meeting.
CARRIED
Page No. 29

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.9 WILSON RECREATION RESERVE - BRIGHTON GRAMMAR - UPDATE
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation & Wellbeing
File No: PSF/21/19 – Doc No: DOC/21/169225
Moved: Cr El Mouallem Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council receives a report detailing the findings of the community consultation at the 17
August 2021 Council meeting.
CARRIED
Page No. 30

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.10 BUILDING REFORM
City Planning and Amenity - City Planning and Amenity
File No: PSF/21/28 – Doc No: DOC/21/177193
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr El Mouallem
That Council notes the submission to stage one of the Building Regulatory System review.
CARRIED
Page No. 31

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.11 ROAD MANAGEMENT PLAN REVIEW
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - City Assets & Projects
File No: PSF/21/21 – Doc No: DOC/21/139476
Moved: Cr El Mouallem Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. adopts the Road Management Plan
2. receives a report reviewing the levels of service outlined in the Road Management
Plan at the February 2022 Council meeting.
CARRIED
Page No. 32

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.12 MUNICIPAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE
REFORM PROCESS
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - City Assets & Projects
File No: PSF/21/21 – Doc No: DOC/21/151478
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council:
1. authorises the disestablishment of the existing Municipal Emergency Management
Planning Committee (MEMPC) established under s21(3)-(5) of the Emergency
Management Act 1986, in recognition that on 1 December 2020 these provisions
were repealed by s82(2) of the Emergency Management Legislation Amendment Act
2018 and replaced by the provisions of s68 of the Emergency Management
Legislation Amendment Act 2018
2. authorises the CEO to facilitate the establishment of the MEMPC in accordance with
the provisions of s68 of the Emergency Management Legislation Amendment Act
2018 (which inserts a new ‘Part 6-Muncipal Emergency Management Planning
Committees’ into the Emergency Management Act 2013 on 1 December 2020)
3. notes that, under the MEMPC Terms of Reference provided and the Emergency
Management Legislation Amendment Act 2018 (which inserts s59 and 59F into the
Emergency Management Act 2013 on 1 December 2020), Council’s role is to
establish the committee. Once established, the committee exists separately to
Council and is not a committee of Council.
CARRIED
Page No. 33

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.13 RESPONSE TO NOTICE OF MOTION - 308 - GREY HEADED FLYING
FOX PROTECTION MEASURES
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation & Wellbeing
File No: PSF/21/19 – Doc No: DOC/21/164181
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. endorses the Management of Barbed Wire Policy May 2021 as set out in Attachment
1, with the inclusion within the policy that Council does not install any barbed wire in
the future, except in rare and exceptional circumstances as outlined in clause 3 to this
resolution
2. reallocates $20,000 from the Biodiversity budget allocation in the 2021–22 budget to
commence the removal of barbed wire in the 2021–22 financial year and refers any
additional funding required to future budget discussions
3. does not install any barbed wire in the future, except in rare and exceptional
circumstances for security purposes and in these cases restricts the use of barbed
wire to a single, marked strand
4. notes the list of food tree species set out in Attachment 2 and refers this for
consideration and inclusion in the Park Improvement and Habitat Linkage Plan, while
prioritising food tree species that do not attract bird pest species
5. authorises the Mayor to advocate to Bayside based authorities, schools and private
land holders including golf courses, for the removal of barbed wire on these sites
6. authorises the Mayor to advocate to the Municipal Association of Victoria to encourage
other councils to adopt similar policies towards the management of barbed wire to
reduce impacts to native wildlife
7. develops and implements a communication strategy aimed at businesses and private
homeowners, on the impacts of barbed wire to wildlife and encouraging them to
remove any barbed wire on their property.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto, Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli (Deputy
Mayor), Hanna El Mouallem, Jo Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona
Stitfold and Laurence Evans OAM (Mayor) (7)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
Page No. 34

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.14 COMMITMENT TO PROCUREMENT AUSTRALIA'S RETAIL ENERGY
TENDER 2021
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Environment
File No: PSF/21/36 – Doc No: DOC/21/170701
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council:
1. commits to participating in Procurement Australia’s Contract 2506/0641 for the
procurement of small market electricity and natural gas for a period commencing 1
July 2023 and ending 30 June 2025
2. notes a preference for Procurement Australia to include a local supplier weighting
criteria and a preference for a supplier who generates and provides 100% renewable
energy in their tender assessment process
3. authorises the Chief Executive Officer to sign the letter (Attachment 1), with an
amendment in accordance with point two of this motion, to commit to Procurement
Australia’s tender stage and the duration of the contract for small market electricity and
natural gas services
4. authorises the Chief Executive Officer to sign all necessary agreements with the
awarding retailer as determined by Procurement Australia for small market electricity
and natural gas services.
CARRIED
Page No. 35

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.15 INVESTIGATION OF THE NEED FOR THE INSTALLATION OF A
PEDESTRIAN CROSSING ON WELL STREET BETWEEN ST ANDREWS
STREET AND CARPENTER STREET, BRIGHTON
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/21/36 – Doc No: DOC/21/174148
It is recorded that Cr El Mouallem declared a general conflict of interest in this item given
he owns a property on Well Street between St Andrew Street and Carpenter Street,
Brighton. Cr El Mouallem left the meeting at 8:55 pm.
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor)
That Council:
1. notes the outcomes of the additional traffic investigations in response to the Council
resolution from 24 March 2020
2. arranges the installation of warning signage to alert motorists of the pedestrian
conditions in this location.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto, Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli (Deputy
Mayor), Hanna El Mouallem, Fiona Stitfold and Laurence Evans
OAM (Mayor) (6)
AGAINST: Cr Jo Samuel-King MBBS (1)
CARRIED
It is recorded that Cr El Mouallem was not present during consideration of the above item and
returned to the meeting at the conclusion of the item at 9:01 pm.
Page No. 36

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.16 SOUTH EAST METROPOLITAN COUNCILS - ADVANCED WASTE
PROJECT
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/173784
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council, having considered the detailed Risk Assessment contained in the confidential
attachment to this report, resolves to join the Special Purpose Vehicle for the South East
Advanced Waste project and underwrites the associated costs up to $100,000, and
authorises the Chief Executive Officer to sign any necessary documentation to progress the
Special Purpose Vehicle.
CARRIED
Page No. 37

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.17 SANDRINGHAM HOSPITAL STRATEGIC AGREEMENT - UPDATE
Community and Customer Experience - Community Services
File No: PSF/21/32 – Doc No: DOC/21/176683
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. continues discussions regarding opportunities to formalise relationships with Alfred
Health, Fairway Bayside Aged Care and Family Life
2. provides a report to Council by March 2022 detailing the outcome of these discussions.
CARRIED
Page No. 38

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.18 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM STRATEGY - UPDATE
City Planning and Amenity - Development Services
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/176956
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council notes the update on the Economic Development and Tourism Strategy and
provides a further status update by June 2022.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.18 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Page No. 39

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.19 PROPOSED LEASE OF ONE TELECOMMUNICATION SITE TO
TELSTRA
Corporate Services - Commercial Services
File No: PSF/21/26 – Doc No: DOC/21/173725
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. commences the statutory procedures under Sections 190 and 223 of the Local
Government Act 1989, to enter into a new Lease with Telstra Corporation Ltd in
accordance with the Heads of Agreements provided in Attachment 1, for the occupation
of one site, being part of Banksia Reserve
2. directs that under Section 190 and 223 of the Local Government Act 1989, public notice
of the proposal to lease the site described in Clause 1 above be given
3. authorises the Director Corporate Services to undertake the administrative procedures
necessary to enable Council to carry out its functions under section 223 of the Act in
relation to the Lease proposed
4. establishes a Special Committee of Council and determines the membership of the
Committee (with a minimum of three {3} councillors) to hear any submitters that wish to
be heard
5. in the event that submission/s are received, convenes a Special Committee of Council
meeting on Wednesday 28 July 2021 at 5:30pm, to be held at the Council Chamber,
Boxshall Street, Brighton, or held remotely via electronic media, to hear any submitters
that wish to be heard
6. receives a further report after the completion of the above statutory processes, in order
to consider and make a decision about whether to grant the Lease described in Clause
1.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.19 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Page No. 40

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.20 COUNCIL ACTION AWAITING REPORT
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/176353
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council notes the Council Action Awaiting Report.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.20 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Page No. 41

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
10.21 UNDERGROUNDING POWERLINES
City Planning and Amenity - Development Services
File No: PSF/21/28 – Doc No: DOC/21/174129
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council
1. notes the report
2. receives a further report at the October 2021 Council meeting with an update and
recommendation on pursuing a Special Rates or Charges Policy.
CARRIED
Page No. 42

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
11. Reports by Delegates
1. Association of Bayside Municipalities – Cr Fiona Stitfold indicated that no meeting
had been held since the last Council meeting.
2. Metropolitan Transport Forum – Cr Castelli advised that she was unable to attend the
recent meeting; however, has received notes from the forum indicating that the Minister
for Public Transport, Roads and Safety, Ben Carroll MP gave a presentation to the forum
and spoke about his commitment to improving public transport and supporting active
transport, and working closely with local government and communities.
The Minister also spoke about the planned shift to zero emissions buses at the start of
2025 and the strong community benefit this shift will provide.
3. Municipal Association of Victoria – Cr Alex del Porto advised that he attended the
May State Council Meeting where Bayside’s motions were successful and received
support from the meeting.
4. Inner South Metropolitan Mayors’ Forum – The Mayor, Cr Laurence Evans OAM
indicated that a meeting of the ISMMF has not been held.
5. Metropolitan Local Government Waste Forum – Cr Clarke Martin advised that the
CEO of the Waste Recovery Group provided an update to the Forum of the contaminated
recycling highlighting that of the 145k tonnes of waste placed in recycling bins, 24% went
to landfill. A lot of this is commercial and industrial waste. Audits were conducted and
food waste accounted for over a quarter of the waste with only 3% of the waste being
recoverable waste – the rest goes to landfill.
The Department of Agriculture Water and Environment also provided an update about
industry-specific levies as required under the new 2020 Recycling Act which include
levies relating to recycling mobile phones, car tyres, plastic bags, electronics, and oil
products.
6. South East Councils Climate Change Alliance – Cr Clarke Martin indicated that a
positive meeting of the alliance was held and noted its successful motions carried at the
recent MAV meeting as outlined by Cr del Porto, and is hopeful the MAV can do some
reform and restructure of the alliance. It is proposed that the SECCCA will present a
draft policy to the MAV representative to table at the MAV.
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
That the Reports by Delegates be received and noted.
CARRIED
Page No. 43

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
12. Urgent Business
There were no items of Urgent Business submitted to the meeting.
13. Notices of Motion
13.1 NOTICE OF MOTION - 311 - RESPONSIBLE DOG OWNERSHIP AND
BEHAVIOURS
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/168458
Moved Cr Martin Seconded Cr Samuel-King MBBS
That Council grants Cr Martin leave to amend his Notice of Motion.
CARRIED
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
That Council:
1. acknowledges and congratulates the majority of dog owners in the community for their
responsible pet ownership and behaviours, and Council supports the continued action
of calling out bad behaviour of a small minority that continue to flout the laws and act
in a recalcitrant manner towards other community members which has a detrimental
impact on the peace and good harmony of local communities
2. clarifies rules relating to the shared use of public open space and ovals and publicises
the importance of responsible pet ownership through various communication channels
3. reviews the controls related to dogs accessing sporting grounds during organised sport
and receives a report at the October 2021 Council Meeting as part of the annual
Domestic Animal Management Plan Review.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto, Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli (Deputy
Mayor), Hanna El Mouallem, Jo Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona
Stitfold and Laurence Evans OAM (Mayor) (7)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
The Mayor noted that this was the last Council meeting for Dr Hamish Reid, Director City
Planning and Amenity and thanked Dr Reid for his contribution to the organisation and the
Bayside Community.
Page No. 44

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 15 June 2021
14. Confidential Business
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Martin
That pursuant to Section 66(2)(a) of the Local Government Act 2020 (the Act), the
Council resolves that so much of this meeting be closed to members of the public, as it
involves Council consideration of matters coming within some or all of the following
categories listed in Section 3(1) (confidential information) of such Act:
(a) Council business information
(b) security information
(c) land use planning information
(d) law enforcement information
(e) legal privileged information
(f) personal information
(g) private commercial information, being information provided by a business,
commercial or financial undertaking that—
(i) relates to trade secrets; or
(ii) if released, would unreasonably expose the business, commercial or financial
undertaking to disadvantage;
(h) confidential meeting information
(i) internal arbitration information
(j) Councillor Conduct Panel confidential information
(k) information prescribed by the regulations to be confidential information for the
purposes of this definition
(l) information that was confidential information for the purposes of section 77 of the
Local Government Act 1989.
CARRIED
Table of Contents
14.1 DENDY BEACH PAVILION PROJECT - UPDATE ON LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
(LGA 2020 Section 3(1)(e) legal privileged information, being information to which
legal professional privilege or client legal privilege applies.)
It is recorded that the public gallery was vacated to enable Council to consider the above
listed items in Confidential Business.
Following consideration of Confidential Business, the Mayor declared the meeting closed at
10:19pm.
Page No. 45

