Council
Meeting
held remotely and
live-streamed via
Council’s website
Tuesday
15 February 2022
at 6:30pm
Minutes

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
PRESENT:
Chairperson: Cr Alex del Porto (Mayor)
Councillors: Cr Sonia Castelli
Cr Hanna El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor)
Cr Laurence Evans OAM
Cr Clarke Martin
Cr Jo Samuel-King MBBS
Cr Fiona Stitfold
Officers: Mick Cummins – Chief Executive Officer
Jill Colson – Director Corporate Services
Bryce Craggs – Director Community and Customer Experience
Matthew Cripps – Director City Planning and Amenity
Adam McSwain – Director Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure
Rachael Bragg – Executive Manager People and Strategy
Juliana Aya – Manager Urban Strategy
Terry Callant – Manager Governance
John Coates – Manager Amenity Protection
James Roscoe – Manager Climate, Waste and Integrated Transport
Jason Stubbs – Manager Commercial Services
Damien Van Trier – Manager Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
Robert Lamb – Governance Officer
Page No. 2

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
Table of Contents
1. Prayer
2. Acknowledgement of Country
3. Apologies
4. Disclosure of Conflict of Interest of any Councillor
5. Adoption and Confirmation of the minutes of previous meeting
6. Public Question Time
7. Petitions to Council
8. Minutes of Advisory Committees
8.1 Records of meetings held under the auspices of Council .......... 13
9. Reports by Special Committees
10. Reports by the Organisation
10.1 Bayside Urban Forest Strategy 2022–40 .................................. 16
10.2 Draft Bayside Parklet Policy ...................................................... 20
10.3 Draft Footpath Trading Policy 2022–25 ..................................... 22
10.4 Proposed Amendment to Council Resolution Regarding
Outcomes of Community Engagement - Wilson Recreation
Reserve - Brighton Grammar School Proposal ......................... 23
10.5 Outcomes from Community Engagement on Defining Character in
Bayside's General Residential Zones ........................................ 24
10.6 Submission to the Department of Environment, Land, Water and
Planning - Improving the Operation of Rescode ........................ 25
10.7 Response to Notice of Motion - 315 - Wildlife-Friendly Gardens
and Naturestrips ........................................................................ 26
10.8 Response to Notice of Motion - 317 - Noisy Miner Project -
Restoring the Balance ............................................................... 27
10.9 Road Management Plan Update ............................................... 28
10.10 Ironman Bayside 2022 .............................................................. 29
10.11 Extension of kerbside waste, recycling and food and green waste
collection contracts .................................................................... 30
10.12 Council Action Awaiting Report ................................................. 31
Page No. 3

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
10.13 Pre-tender commitment to procurement of South East
Metropolitan Advanced Waste Processing (SEMAWP) ............. 32
11. Reports by Delegates
12. Urgent Business
13. Notices of Motion
14. Confidential Business
14.1 Community Sports Facilities at Sandringham College - Project
Update ....................................................................................... 35
Page No. 4

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
The Mayor declared the Council Meeting open at 6:30pm and noted that the meeting was
being held remotely via electronic media. The meeting was recorded and streamed live on the
internet.
The Mayor invited Cr Stitfold to read the prayer.
1. Prayer
Cr Stitfold read the prayer at the commencement of the meeting.
O God
Bless this City, Bayside,
Give us courage, strength and wisdom,
So that our deliberations,
May be for the good of all,
Amen
2. Acknowledgement of Country
Cr Samuel-King read the acknowledgement of the original inhabitants of this land.
 Bayside City Council proudly acknowledges the Bunurong People of the Kulin
Nation as the Traditional Owners and Custodians of this land, and we pay our
respects to their Elders, past, present and emerging as well as any Aboriginal or
Torres Strait Islander community members with us today.
 Council acknowledges the Bunurong’s continuing relationship to the land and
waterways and respects that their connection and spiritual identity is maintained
through ancient ceremonies, songlines, dance, art and living culture.
 Council pays tribute to the invaluable contributions of the Bunurong and other
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island Elders who have guided and continue to guide
the work we do.
3. Apologies
There were no apologies submitted to the meeting.
4. Disclosure of Conflict of Interest of any Councillor
Cr El Mouallem declared a general conflict of interest in the following items, given his wife is
involved in the operation of a hospitality business in Brighton and it may be perceived that
this interest will influence consideration of these items:
• Item 10.2 – Draft Bayside Parklet Policy
• Item 10.3 – Draft Footpath Trading Policy 2022-25
Page No. 5

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
Procedural Motion
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Stitfolf
That Council:
1. considers the meeting to be adjourned for 10 minutes from the commencement of any
technical problem which prevents Council from livestreaming the meeting
2. adjourns the meeting to be reconvened on Wednesday 16 February 2022 at 6.30pm
via livestreaming on Council’s website, in the event livestreaming cannot be resumed
within 30 minutes from the commencement of the technical problem which prevents
livestreaming on Council’s website.
CARRIED
5. Adoption and Confirmation of the minutes of previous meeting
5.1 Confirmation of the Minutes of the Ordinary meeting of Bayside City Council held on
21 December 2021.
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That the minutes of the Ordinary meeting of Bayside City Council held on 21
December 2021, as previously circulated, be confirmed as an accurate record of
proceedings.
CARRIED
6. Public Question Time
In accordance with Chapter 2, Section 57 of Council’s Governance Rules, 11 public
questions were submitted to the Meeting. In accordance with the resolution at the June 2021
Ordinary Meeting of Council, temporary meeting procedures with regard to public question
time are in place:
• All questions received and responses are read out at the meeting within the allotted 15
minute timeframe for public question time.
• All questions and responses read out will be recorded in the minutes.
• A written response will be provided to all questions received.
Page No. 6

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
1. Ms Lesley Bawden
Ms Lesley Bawden submitted a question regarding the proposed Warm Water Pool at Brighton
Golf Course, and Ms Bawden asked:
Question
Noting that this is open public space which will be sacrificed, can the CEO confirm that the
smaller warm water pool proposed for the Brighton Golf Course precinct will:
a. be heated to at least 34°
b. have good/plentiful public access times for ordinary residents and ratepayers of Bayside
c. have an ambient air temperature on a par with GESAC's Wellness (warm water) pool
Response from the CEO
It is proposed that the clinical pool will be heated to 34 degrees.
Council has resolved that providing a level of affordable and accessible community access to
both Warm Water pools is a key principle of this project.
The pool and surrounds will be designed by aquatic specialists to ensure the comfort of facility
users.
2. Ms Dineke Maclean
Ms Dineke Maclean submitted a question regarding the proposed Warm Water Pool at
Brighton Golf Course, and Ms Maclean asked:
Question
a) Given that commercial arrangements will need to be negotiated, can the CEO confirm
that council will engage experienced commercial operators to negotiate favourable
terms of lease for the proposed Warm Water Pool facility at Brighton Golf Course, and
if so, what will be the key outcomes required from the negotiators?
b. Will a key outcome the commercial negotiators be required to meet be to negotiate that
there be good/plentiful/ongoing public access times to the small warm water pool for
ordinary residents and ratepayers of Bayside such as at City of Glen Eira's GESAC
Wellness Pool, without the need to be under supervision and added expense of health
practitioners?
Response from the CEO
a) Council is negotiating directly with Leisure Management Services as the current
lessee of Brighton Golf Course and an experienced aquatic facility management
company.
b) Council has resolved that providing a level of affordable and accessible community
access to both Warm Water pools is a key principle of this project.
Page No. 7

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
3. Mr Michael Heffernan
Mr Michael Heffernan submitted a question regarding legal costs to defend Council’s decision
to build a new Life saving club at Dendy St Beach, and Mr Heffernan asked:
Question
In view of the fact that the Victorian Supreme Court of Appeal has dismissed the appeal by the
Brighton Foreshore Association against an earlier VCAT decision regarding the Dendy Street
Beach Masterplan and pavilion, I ask the following questions:
a) how much has it cost the Bayside Council to defend these actions at VCAT, and at
the Victorian Supreme Court and again at the Appeal Court of the Victorian Supreme
Court?
b) has the losing party in these actions, the Brighton Foreshore Association, contributed
to the costs incurred by the Bayside Council in defending these actions, and if the
losing party has not yet contributed what action will the Bayside Council consider to
recompense the Council and ratepayers?
Response from the CEO
The total costs associated with the engagement of consultants/experts and legal
representation associated will all the various proceedings (inclusive of VCAT, the Supreme
Court, and the Court of Appeals), since 2016–17, is in the order of $930,000.
Specifically the legal fees incurred by Council associated with the cost of defending the
Supreme Court proceeding and the Court of Appeal proceeding equate to approximately
$278,000.
A costs order has been made in Council’s favour against the applicant in both proceedings.
Council is in the process of pursuing its costs in accordance with those costs orders. Council
is unable to say anything more about that process at this stage.
4. Mrs Janice Cook
Mrs Janice Cook submitted a question referencing elements of Council’s Urban Forest
Strategy, and Mrs Cook asked:
Question
a) What does Council propose doing about problems caused by neighbour’s tree roots?
b) Where does this new plan leave ratepayers in relation to this problem?
Response from the CEO
With regard to existing trees on private property, Council's only involvement is to determine a
tree pruning application, if required. Legal advice on these matters can be obtained from
lawyers, Legal Aid or BayCISS. Dispute Settlement Centre of Victoria remains the appropriate
venue to address these matters.
When approving the siting of new vegetation through proposed landscape plans for new
development, Council officers consider the proximity to the adjoining boundaries and fences
as part of their decision and whether alternative locations can be provided to ensure problems
in relation to tree roots are minimised.
Page No. 8

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
5. Mr George Reynolds
Mr George Reynolds submitted a question regarding heritage matters, and Mr Reynolds
asked:
Question
Residents of post-war properties in Beaumaris are being regailed with postal advertising,
authored by Council, to join a "voluntary" Heritage Register.
(a) Is this work being funded from the General Rate Budget, and
(b) Has the Voluntary Heritage Register been approved by the Minister for Planning as
suitable for inclusion in the Bayside Planning Scheme?
Response from the CEO
The voluntary heritage nomination process was funded from Council’s Operational Budget.
The voluntary heritage nomination approach was not supported by the Minister for Planning
as it was considered the process did not adequately fulfil Council’s responsibilities under the
Planning and Environment Act 1987. Instead, the Minister advised that Council should
undertake a more detailed study to ensure appropriate protections exist, resulting in the
preparation of the draft Post-War Modern Residential Heritage Study.
6. Mr George Reynolds
Mr George Reynolds submitted a further question regarding rates and charges, and Mr
Reynolds asked:
Question
In response to a freedom of Information request dated 4th November 2021, Council claimed
not to have the information required to correctly calculate the rates and charges for the current
year. Which public documents are available to allow the ratepayers to access:
(a) the estimated amount to be raised by General Rates, as required by Reg. 117/2020
s10(2)(c) and (d), and
(b) the estimated amount to be raised by each type of service rate or charge, as required
by Reg 117/2020 s10(2)(o)?
Response from the CEO
A schedules or rates and charges including general rates and service charges has been
prepared in accordance with the Reporting Regulations and can be found on pages 42 to 45
of the Bayside City Council 2021/22 Budget. The 2021–22 budget document was subject to
community consultation prior to its adoption by Council and can be found on Bayside’s website.
Page No. 9

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
7. Mrs Mary Larsen
Mrs Mary Larsen submitted a question regarding heritage matters, and Mrs Larsen asked:
Question
Please advise: What is the justification for heritage listing 170 ageing homes from another era
in perpetuity when there are already 30 properties heritage listed in Post-War Modern
Architectural style?
Response from the CEO
The draft Post-War Modern Residential Heritage Study has identified 98 properties to be of
potential individual local heritage significance, and 8 properties to be of potential heritage
significance as a ‘group listing’.
Heritage significance is assessed using HERCON criteria, which is used for heritage
assessments across Australia. The criteria comprises of eight individual standards and is a
national set of established criteria used to determine the suitability of a Heritage Place. The
significance of a property is based upon (but not limited to): the historical, rarity, scientific,
environmental, design, technical, social and/or other special significance.
The heritage process leading to the identification of the place needs to clearly justify the
significance of the place as a basis for its inclusion in the Heritage Overlay.
8. Ms Natalie Boston
Ms Natalie Boston submitted a question regarding planting of native species, and Ms Boston
asked:
Question
Will planting of native species be selected from appropriate local regional specimen and can
council seek advice from Indigenous landscape heritage consultant, this strengthening
Bayside’s willingness to acknowledge and respect Traditional Custodians’ input?
Response from the CEO
Plant species used to plant out Council land will be sourced from the Bayside Community
Nursery. The nursery propagates all its stock from locally sourced material, including seed
back.
Where possible, tree stock will also be sourced from the Bayside Community Nursery. Due to
the volumes of stock required, alternative nurseries will also be engaged to supply tree stock.
This stock will be predominantly sandbelt indigenous.
Any input from specific landscape consultants will be determined on a site-by-site basis and
subject to funding.
Page No. 10

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
9. Ms Natalie Boston
Ms Natalie Boston submitted a further question regarding significant trees, and Ms Boston
asked:
Question
How is Council held to account to protect existing significant trees in the event that Council
owned/ managed land may need redevelopment, and said trees are deemed to be in the way
and thus sanctioned for removal? Case in point at the Ludstone Street dog park.
Response from the CEO
Council projects that have the potential to impact trees are subject to the same application
process as a project delivered by any developer or business. Therefore, should a Council-
managed project require a tree to be removed, and if that application is approved, the required
fee is paid by the project. Fees received are reinvested into future tree planting and
establishment works across Bayside.
10. Ms Megan Fallon
Ms Megan Fallon submitted a question regarding the keeping of poultry animals, and Ms Fallon
asked:
Question
What is Council’s justifications for requiring a planning permit for keeping more than 2
chickens? Was an animal welfare expert consulted in the decision making process?
Response from the CEO
Council has reviewed the matter and determined the Local Law provisions are more
appropriate to manage the number of Poultry on private property. Up to 10 Poultry animals
can be kept without a Local Law permit provided the animals are not part of a commercial
operation or for breeding purposes; otherwise, a planning permit would be required for Animal
Husbandry.
Planning Permits applications for Animal Husbandry do not require input from animal welfare
experts as the Planning Scheme clearly sets out the relevant requirements.
Page No. 11

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
11. Dr Zena Burgess
Dr Zena Burgess submitted a question regarding heritage matters, and Dr Burgess asked:
Question
There are 177 homes listed by consultants for involuntary heritage listing.
What specific criteria and weighting will be used to assess which properties are included and
which are allowed to be controlled by the property owners?
Response from the CEO
The draft Post-War Modern Residential Heritage Study has identified 98 properties to be of
potential individual local heritage significance, and 8 properties to be of potential heritage
significance as a ‘group listing’.
Heritage significance is assessed using HERCON criteria, which is used for heritage
assessments across Australia. The criteria comprises of eight individual criteria and is a
national set of established criteria used to determine the suitability of a Heritage Place. The
significance of a property is based upon (but not limited to): the historical, rarity, scientific,
environmental, design, technical, social and/or other special significance.
The heritage process leading to the identification of the place needs to clearly justify the
significance of the place as a basis for its inclusion in the Heritage Overlay. The documentation
for each place shall include a Statement of Significance that clearly establishes the importance
of the place and addresses the heritage criteria.
7. Petitions to Council
There were no petitions submitted to the meeting.
Page No. 12

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
8. Minutes of Advisory Committees
8.1 RECORDS OF MEETINGS HELD UNDER THE AUSPICES OF COUNCIL
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/22/31 – Doc No: DOC/22/28982
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council notes the records of meeting/s held under the auspices of Council as required
by the Local Government Act 2020 and Council’s Governance Rules:
• 1 February 2022 Councillor Briefing.
CARRIED
Page No. 13

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
9. Reports by Special Committees
There were no reports by special committees submitted to the meeting.
10. Reports by the Organisation
REQUESTS TO BE HEARD:
The Mayor noted that temporary changes to the Council meeting procedures are in place with
regard to Chapter 2, Division 10 of Council’s Governance Rules (Individual Presentations),
whereby:
• in place of speaking in-person at a Council / Committee meeting, members of the
public may submit a written statement (maximum of four (4) A4 single pages) which
must be sent electronically, or delivered to Council's Corporate Centre, by 9:00am on
the day of the meeting
• written statements received after 9:00am on the day of the meeting will not be
considered by the meeting
• a person may only make a written statement to an Ordinary Meeting/Special
Committee Meeting in relation to an item listed in the agenda under Reports by the
Organisation, and even then not if the item is in the nature of a report summarising a
decision already made by another body; or if the report relates to a Tender Report
relating to the awarding of a contract
• in accordance with Chapter 2, Section 83(1) of Council’s Governance Rules 2020, any
statement which is derogatory, or defamatory of any Councillor, member of Council
staff, or member of the community may not be accepted
• where a person has formally made a written statement in relation to an item on the
agenda, the statement will be provided to all councillors in advance of the meeting
• written statements are not confidential and, following the closure for receipt of
statements, will be published (including first and last names only) on Council’s website
as an attachment to the Agenda for the relevant meeting
• written statements will not be read out at the meeting; however, the Chairperson will
advise the meeting of the number of statements received to each item.
The following individuals submitted written statements to the meeting:
Item 10.1 Bayside Urban Forest Strategy 2022–40
1. Dr Vicki Karalis (on behalf of Sandringham Foreshore Association)
2. Mrs Sue Forster
3. Ms Pauline Reynolds
4. Mr Derek Screen (on behalf of Pennydale Residents Action Group Inc.)
5. Ms Sally Eldridge (on behalf of Friends of Native Wildlife Inc.)
Page No. 14

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
Item 10.2 Draft Bayside Parklet Policy
1. Mr Erik Purcell
2. Mr Ray Purcell
3. Dr Vicki Karalis (on behalf of Sandringham Foreshore Association)
4. Mr Jonathan Sherren
5. Mr James Salem
6. Mr Evan and Mrs Jane Packer
Item 10.3 Draft Footpath Trading Policy 2022–25
1. Mr Evan Packer
Item 10.4 Proposed Amendment to Council Resolution Regarding Outcomes of
Community Engagement - Wilson Recreation Reserve - Brighton
Grammar School Proposal
1. Mr Ross Featherston (on behalf of Brighton Grammar School)
2. Mr David Brewer
3. Mr Kevin Howard
4. Ms Katrina Fraser
5. Miss Dianne Anderson
Item 10.5 Outcomes from Community Engagement on Defining Character in
Bayside's General Residential Zones
1. Mr Derek Screen (on behalf of Pennydale Residents Action Group Inc.)
Item 10.7 Response to Notice of Motion - 315 - Wildlife-Friendly Gardens and
Naturestrips
1. Mrs Sue Forster
2. Ms Pauline Reynolds
Item 10.8 Response to Notice of Motion - 317 - Noisy Miner Project
1. Mrs Sue Forster
Item 10.11 Extension of kerbside waste, recycling and food and green waste
collection contracts
1. Mr George Reynolds
Page No. 15

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
10.1 BAYSIDE URBAN FOREST STRATEGY 2022–40
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/22/35 – Doc No: DOC/22/27947
It is recorded that Dr Vicki Karalis (on behalf of Sandringham Foreshore Association), Mrs
Sue Forster, Ms Pauline Reynolds, Mr Derek Screen (on behalf of Pennydale Residents
Action Group Inc.), and Ms Sally Eldridge (on behalf of Friends of Native Wildlife Inc.) each
submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council:
1. adopts the Bayside Urban Forest Strategy 2022–40 (Attachment 1), subject to the
following amendments:
1.1. Amend the Vision of the Urban Forest Strategy which reads:
Bayside’s urban forest will support and contribute to a cooler, greener and
ecologically connected Bayside through increased vegetation and canopy
cover, that provides areas of habitat for biodiversity to thrive, enhances the
amenity and character of the municipality, and builds on our community’s
connection to nature.
is to be replaced so to read:
Bayside’s urban forest will protect and restore ecological systems with
special concern for biological diversity and natural processes which will
create a cooler and greener Bayside with enhanced amenity and character
where people are connected to nature.
1.2. Amend the introduction to include reference to pre European settlement, historic
Ecological Vegetation Communities (EVC), and the cultural significance of
vegetation to our indigenous community.
1.3. Amend the Strategic Objectives of the Strategy to include an additional point to
read:
• Support and enhance our local biodiversity and protect locally
endangered, native species via improving habitat connectivity and
the protection and planting of EVCs
1.4. Amend the “Benefits of Urban Forest” section of the Urban Forest Strategy to
include an additional point, to read:
• re-introduction and/or return of locally extinct flora and fauna
1.5 Strengthen the Urban Forest Strategy to also focus on increasing the ground
cover and mid storey vegetation, by:
Amending Goal 3 so to read:
Goal 3: Council will seek to substantially increase understorey planting,
including shrubs, small trees and all other elements that occupy the
vegetation layer below the canopy of taller trees, throughout Council
Page No. 16

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
streets, parks and reserves to improve native biodiversity, provide habitat
and food sources for a range of fauna.
1.6 Amend Strategy 3.1 (first point) so to read:
Strategy 3.1: Improve, implement, and facilitate Council processes
and procedures to assist the monitoring of the urban forest
• Implementing the Urban Tree Monitoring Project
Council will continue to develop the Urban Tree Monitoring Project
to ensure Council is able to track and measure tree canopy cover
across Bayside and its ground cover and mid story vegetation. The
Tool will allow Council to continue monitoring the loss and gain of
trees over time, and health of the urban forest as new trees start to
develop.
Following the implementation of the Tool, the data collected could
expand to identify tree height and species on private property and
identify and predict areas that are vulnerable to potential heat
island effect.
1.7 Amend the four (4) year action plan theme “Monitor” action to read:
Continue to develop the Urban Tree Monitoring Tool to ensure Council
can:
a) Track and measure canopy cover and tree numbers
b) Strengthen the model to aim to create modelling and forecasting
scenarios
c) Aim to expand the software to be able to identify tree height and
species in the longer term.
d) Aim to expand the software to identify different types of vegetation
cover below 3 metres in height so to set targets to substantially
increase understorey planting, including shrubs, small trees and all
other elements that occupy the vegetation layer below the canopy of
taller trees
e) Aim to embed a heat mapping tool within the model to be able to
predict future areas vulnerable to potential urban heat island effect.
f) Present the spatial representation of tree and vegetation species
and diversity across Bayside.
1.8 Amend the four (4) year action plan theme “Increase” action “Increase the
use of vegetation cover, particularly under-storey planting, in public areas to
increase greening and improve biodiversity without impacting on
accessibility or existing uses” target to read:
• Increase the understorey (understorey/middle storey)
vegetation by 50% by 2040
1.9 Amend the four (4) year action plan theme “Increase”, aligning with “Consider
the individual needs of Bayside’s suburbs and ensure that the approach to
increasing canopy cover and urban forest outcomes is tailored to the
conditions of each area” by amending action “Prepare precinct-based urban
forest plans to respond to site specific challenges and identify opportunities
for increased planting” part a) to read:
Page No. 17

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
a) Prioritise areas of greatest need, including areas with the lowest
existing percentage canopy tree cover, to increased planting,
including areas that are strategically located to mitigate Urban
Heat Island effects for residents (including within Major Activity
Areas and areas experiencing increased density and
construction activity),areas of declining canopy or aging trees,
highly trafficked pedestrian routes and gaps/vacancies in public
planting
1.10 Strengthen the Urban Forest Strategy by:
a) Amending the four (4) year action plan theme ‘Maintain’, aligning with
“Enhance Council’s ability to retain existing trees on private property
through increased regulation of tree removal” strategy by including the
following new actions:
• Investigate and where possible introduce a municipal-wide
approach to the avoiding, minimising, and offsetting the loss of
native vegetation based on a similar framework to that set out
in Clause 52.17 of the Bayside Planning Scheme
• To review Planning Permit Landscape Conditions to require
the retention of appropriate tree trunks and/or branches on site
or within Council reserves to support and strengthen our
habitat
b) Amending the four (4) year action plan theme ‘Maintain’, aligning with
“Enhance Council’s ability to retain existing trees on private property
through increased regulation of tree removal.” by amending action
“Amend the Neighbourhood Amenity Local Law, Management of Tree
Protection on Private Property 2015” to include:
• Increase the trees that are protected to include exotic species
c) Amending the four (4) year action plan theme ‘Celebrate and Learn’,
aligning with “Continue to build upon Council’s green image and utilise
this platform to advocate and partner with key stakeholders to provide
greener outcomes across Bayside, metropolitan Melbourne and
Victoria” strategy by including the following new action:
• Develop an “Adopt a Tree or Ecological Vegetation
Communities” program to encourage the community to directly
and actively support the objectives of the urban forest strategy
d) Amending the four (4) year action plan theme ‘Increase’, aligning with
“Consider the individual needs of Bayside’s suburbs and ensure that
the approach to increasing canopy cover and urban forest outcomes is
tailored to the conditions of each area” by including the following new
action:
• Review and recommend the required actions to support
Council’s Community Nursery(ies) to ensure it can adequately
support the demands in providing plants (including mother stock)
to support the Urban Forest Strategy
Page No. 18

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
1.11 Minor editorial changes to ensure that there is clarity regarding biodiversity
2. considers the financial costs of implementing the Urban Forest Strategy as part of
the 2022–23 budget process
3. requires updates to be presented to Council annually which highlights (but not limited
to):
3.1 the status of the annual actions
3.2 the four year action for the future years
3.3 any proposed changes to the strategy that may be necessary to ensure that
the strategy remains current
4. writes to all participants to thank them for their contribution in assisting the
preparation and completion of the Strategy.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto (Mayor), Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli, Jo
Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona Stitfold, Laurence Evans OAM and
Hanna El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) (7)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
Page No. 19

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
10.2 DRAFT BAYSIDE PARKLET POLICY
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/22/35 – Doc No: DOC/22/28970
It is recorded that Mr Erik Purcell, Mr Ray Purcell, Dr Vicki Karalis (on behalf of
Sandringham Foreshore Association), Mr Jonathan Sherren, James Salem, and Mr Evan
and Mrs Jane Packer each submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
It is recorded that Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) declared a general conflict of interest in
this item given his wife is involved in the operation of a hospitality business in Brighton and
it may be perceived that this interest will influence consideration of this matter. Cr El
Mouallem left the Meeting at 7.37 pm.
Moved: Cr Stitfold Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
Part A
That Council:
1. supports the extension of spacelets for a period of five months, where the current
spacelet beneficiaries enter an agreement to maintain the temporary structures at their
full cost or proceed with the removal of spacelets where no agreement is entered into
commencing 31 March 2022
2. endorses the draft Parklet Policy for the purposes of community engagement
3. receives a report at the May 2022 Council Meeting with the outcomes of the community
consultation and the revised Draft Parklet Policy for adoption.
Part B
That a report be presented to Council at or by the June 2022 Council meeting on the process
(including the time, resourcing, cost and consultation) to consider the closure of the section
Melrose Street, Sandringham located to the west of Station Street, Sandringham and east
of common boundary between 12 Melrose Street and 118-120 Beach Road, Sandringham to
vehicular traffic pursuant to the requirements of the relevant legislation; and investigate the
merits of making the underground parking at 122 Beach Road for traders only with the
appropriate parking times to be reviewed.
Page No. 20

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto (Mayor), Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli, Jo
Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona Stitfold and Laurence Evans OAM
(6)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
It is recorded that Cr El Mouallem was not present in the meeting during debate on this item
or when the vote was taken.
Page No. 21

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
10.3 DRAFT FOOTPATH TRADING POLICY 2022–25
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/22/35 – Doc No: DOC/22/29503
It is recorded that Mr Evan Packer submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
It is recorded that Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) declared a general conflict of interest in
this item given his wife is involved in the operation of a hospitality business in Brighton and
it may be perceived that this interest will influence consideration of this matter.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
That Council defers consideration of this matter until the March 2022 Council meeting.
CARRIED
It is recorded that Cr El Mouallem was not present in the meeting during debate on this item
or when the vote was taken.
Page No. 22

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) returned to the Meeting at 7.57 pm.
10.4 PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO COUNCIL RESOLUTION REGARDING
OUTCOMES OF COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT - WILSON RECREATION
RESERVE - BRIGHTON GRAMMAR SCHOOL PROPOSAL
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
File No: PSF/22/27 – Doc No: DOC/22/21432
It is recorded that Mr Ross Featherston (on behalf of Brighton Grammar School), Mr David
Brewer, Mr Kevin Howard, Ms Katrina Fraser, and Miss Dianne Anderson each submitted
a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
That Council:
1. reaffirms the resolution passed at the 17 August 2021 Council Meeting on this
matter
2. notes its willingness to further consider this item if Brighton Grammar School is
open to entering into an agreement that provides community access outside of
school hours and activities to Brighton Grammar School’s Crowther and/or Mitchell
ovals.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto (Mayor), Sonia Castelli, Jo Samuel-King
MBBS, Fiona Stitfold, Laurence Evans OAM and Hanna El
Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) (6)
AGAINST: Cr Clarke Martin (1)
CARRIED
Page No. 23

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
10.5 OUTCOMES FROM COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT ON DEFINING
CHARACTER IN BAYSIDE'S GENERAL RESIDENTIAL ZONES
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/22/35 – Doc No: DOC/22/29197
It is recorded that Mr Derek Screen (on behalf of Pennydale Residents Action Group Inc.)
submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council:
1. notes the community engagement results from the preferred character in growth areas
engagement consultation
2. continues to draft potential planning scheme changes to support character outcomes in
growth areas
3. receives a report at or before the June 2022 Council Meeting with the outcomes.
CARRIED
Procedural Motion
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr Martin
That the meeting be adjourned for a period of 10 minutes.
CARRIED
It is recorded that the meeting was adjourned at 8.30pm.
Procedural Motion
Moved: Cr Evans OAM Seconded: Cr Castelli
That the meeting be resumed.
CARRIED
It is recorded that the meeting was resumed at 8.40pm.
Page No. 24

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
10.6 SUBMISSION TO THE DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENT, LAND,
WATER AND PLANNING - IMPROVING THE OPERATION OF RESCODE
City Planning and Amenity - Development Services
File No: PSF/22/35 – Doc No: DOC/22/27929
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Castelli
That Council endorses the officer submission to the Department of Environment, Land,
Water and Planning (DEWLP) regarding ‘Improving the operation of Rescode’.
CARRIED
Page No. 25

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
10.7 RESPONSE TO NOTICE OF MOTION - 315 - WILDLIFE-FRIENDLY
GARDENS AND NATURESTRIPS
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
File No: PSF/22/27 – Doc No: DOC/22/18459
It is recorded that Mrs Sue Forster, and Ms Pauline Reynolds each submitted a written
statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council:
1. continues to promote that residents are no longer required to obtain a permit for
indigenous plantings in nature strips
2. considers the matter of cat containment and curfews as part of the development of
Council’s Domestic Animal Management Plan
3. considers the allocation of $25,000 for the development of a series of webinars,
podcasts, other online forums and/or in-person workshops encouraging residents to
plant and maintain wildlife friendly gardens as part of the 2022–23 budget process
4. receives a further report in June 2022 on the cost and resource impacts of facilitating
an open garden scheme and reviewing opportunities to increase readership and
availability of the Banksia Bulletin.
CARRIED
Page No. 26

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
10.8 RESPONSE TO NOTICE OF MOTION - 317 - NOISY MINER PROJECT -
RESTORING THE BALANCE
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
File No: PSF/22/27 – Doc No: DOC/22/18495
It is recorded that Mrs Sue Forster submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council:
1. focuses on the implementation of the Urban Forest Strategy, Parks Linkages and
Habitat Improvement Plan and other open space projects in an effort to improve the
natural environment particularly for small, native birds
2. recognises Noisy Miners as a Key Threatening Process and as such as a key threat
to biodiversity, both within Bayside and more generally
3. makes a submission to the review of the Wildlife Act (Victoria) requesting the State
Government (as part of this review) to remove the need for permits in order to actively
manage Noisy Miners.
CARRIED
Page No. 27

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
10.9 ROAD MANAGEMENT PLAN UPDATE
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - City Assets and Presentation
File No: PSF/22/29 – Doc No: DOC/22/31462
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council:
1. notes the performance standards in the Road Management Plan
2. seeks a further report by May 2022 on the cost and resource implications of
reducing the footpath intervention level to 15mm and modifying the days to
completion on Major Roads and high-use footpaths to 15 days.
CARRIED
Page No. 28

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
10.10 IRONMAN BAYSIDE 2022
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
File No: PSF/22/27 – Doc No: DOC/22/13879
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council approves the extended road closure end time endorsed in the Events in Public
Places Policy from 11.30am to 1.00pm on 13 November 2022 to conduct the Ironman
Melbourne event.
CARRIED
Page No. 29

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
10.11 EXTENSION OF KERBSIDE WASTE, RECYCLING AND FOOD AND
GREEN WASTE COLLECTION CONTRACTS
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Climate, Waste and Integrated Transport
File No: PSF/22/26 – Doc No: DOC/22/19858
It is recorded that Mr George Reynolds submitted a written statement in relation to this
item.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council authorises the Chief Executive Officer or his delegate to:
1. extend the current Food and Green Waste Collection Contract No. 111207B for the
period 1 July 2022 to 30 June 2023 and vary the collection schedule to a weekly
collection frequency for the duration of the contract extension and execute this in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract
2. extend the current Domestic Waste Collection Contract No. 111207C for the period
1 July 2022 to 30 June 2023 and vary the collection schedule to a fortnightly
collection frequency for the duration of the contract extension and execute this in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract
3. extend the current Recycling Collection Contract No. 12/64 for the period 1 July
2022 to 30 June 2023 and execute this in accordance with the terms and conditions
of the contract.
CARRIED
Page No. 30

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
10.12 COUNCIL ACTION AWAITING REPORT
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/22/31 – Doc No: DOC/22/28985
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council notes the Council Action Awaiting Report.
CARRIED
Page No. 31

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
10.13 PRE-TENDER COMMITMENT TO PROCUREMENT OF SOUTH EAST
METROPOLITAN ADVANCED WASTE PROCESSING (SEMAWP)
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Climate, Waste and Integrated Transport
File No: PSF/22/26 – Doc No: DOC/22/17748
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council:
1. authorises the Chief Executive Officer to execute and send a commitment letter to
South East Metropolitan Advanced Waste Processing Pty Ltd (ACN 654 660 438)
confirming that Council will not exercise any right to request a buy-back of its shares
under the Shareholders Agreement for the duration of the contract and would not
exercise its right to exit from the SEMAWP Project subject to the tender responses
falling within the following fundamental parameters:
• is a conforming Tender and complies with the requirements of the Specification, or
such other form of specification approved by the SPV
• the project being located at the agreed Site
• has the terms of any Waste Supply Deed in the form of the draft waste supply deed
contained in the Request for Tender, or such other form of waste supply deed
approved by the SPV
• the gate fee is within an agreed limit for the South East Metropolitan Advanced
Waste Processing Project
2. endorses the pass-through arrangements for any liability incurred by the SPV to
Council under the minimum tonnage guarantee regime on the basis that:
• Council will only be liable to provide waste to the minimum tonnage as agreed
through the Working Group
• the minimum tonnage guarantee from the SPV to the AWP provider would be
assessed annually under the Waste Supply Deed between the SPV and the AWP
Provider
• any liability of the SPV incurred under the minimum tonnage guarantee (which
could not be covered by waste produced by other participating councils or
alternative waste streams secured by the AWP Provider) would be passed through
to Council if the minimum tonnage commitment was not achieved
3. endorses the provision of a financial guarantee, under which the councils guarantee
that South East Metropolitan Advanced Waste Processing Pty Ltd will remain solvent
and will not be wound up during the term of the Contract
4. endorses the partial bid reimbursement arrangement for unsuccessful tenderers who
submit compliant tender responses and to cover circumstances where the SEMAWP
tender is cancelled by the SPV or councils
5. authorises the Chief Executive Officer to take any further actions necessary to facilitate
Council’s participation in the South East Metropolitan Advanced Waste Processing
Project.
CARRIED
Page No. 32

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
11. Reports by Delegates
1. Association of Bayside Municipalities – Crs Fiona Stitfold and Clarke Martin indicated
that there has been no meeting since the previous meeting.
2. Metropolitan Transport Forum – The Director Environment, Recreation and
Infrastructure attended the recent forum where PTV gave a presentation on the strategic
plan and initiatives that are being explored across the state.
3. Municipal Association of Victoria – The Mayor, Cr Alex del Porto indicated that no
meeting has been held. The Annual State Council Meeting of the MAV is scheduled to
be held in May 2022.
4. Inner South Metropolitan Mayors’ Forum – The Mayor, Cr Alex del Porto indicated
that the Mayor’s forum has not met.
5. Metropolitan Local Government Waste Forum – Cr Clarke Martin indicated that the
Waste Forum met last week, with the main focus on building the circular economy and
impacts of bin contamination.
6. South East Councils Climate Change Alliance – Crs Clarke Martin and Fiona Stitfold
indicated that that SECCCA has not met since the previous Council meeting.
Moved: Cr Evans Seconded: Cr Martin
That the Reports by Delegates be received and noted.
CARRIED
Page No. 33

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
12. Urgent Business
Procedural Motion to admit item to Urgent Business
Moved Cr Samuel-King Seconded Cr Evans
That the matter of Council’s amended submission in relation to the Suburban Rail Loop East
Environmental Effects Statement be dealt with as a matter of Urgent Business.
CARRIED
12.1 SUBURBAN RAIL LOOP EAST ENVIROMENTAL EFFECTS STATEMENT
Moved Cr Samuel-King Seconded Cr Evans
That Council:
1. amends its submission to the Suburban Rail Loop East Environmental Effects
Statement and Planning Scheme Amendment endorsed by Council at its meeting of
21 December 2021 to include impacts associated with the loss of the regionally
significant open space “Chain of Parks”
2. notes that the proposed amendment responds to Council’s previous advocacy and
support for the sand belt Chain of Parks, and the need to continue to protect the
Green Wedge Delta to meet current and future demand for open space for the South
East Region.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto (Mayor), Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli, Jo
Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona Stitfold, Laurence Evans OAM and
Hanna El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) (7)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
13. Notices of Motion
There were no notices of motion submitted to the meeting.
Page No. 34

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 February 2022
14. Confidential Business
Moved: Cr Evans OAM Seconded: Cr Martin
That pursuant to Section 66(2)(a) of the Local Government Act 2020 (the Act), the
Council resolves that so much of this meeting be closed to members of the public, as it
involves Council consideration of matters coming within some or all of the following
categories listed in Section 3(1) (confidential information) of such Act:
(a) Council business information
(b) security information
(c) land use planning information
(d) law enforcement information
(e) legal privileged information
(f) personal information
(g) private commercial information, being information provided by a business,
commercial or financial undertaking that—
(i) relates to trade secrets; or
(ii) if released, would unreasonably expose the business, commercial or financial
undertaking to disadvantage;
(h) confidential meeting information
(i) internal arbitration information
(j) Councillor Conduct Panel confidential information
(k) information prescribed by the regulations to be confidential information for the
purposes of this definition
(l) information that was confidential information for the purposes of section 77 of the
Local Government Act 1989.
CARRIED
Table of Contents
14.1 COMMUNITY SPORTS FACILITIES AT SANDRINGHAM COLLEGE - PROJECT
UPDATE
(LGA 2020 Section 3(1)(a) Council business information, being information that would
prejudice the Council's position in commercial negotiations if prematurely released.)
It is recorded that the public gallery was vacated to enable Council to consider the above
listed items in Confidential Business.
Following consideration of Confidential Business, the Mayor declared the meeting closed at
9.55pm.
Page No. 35

