Council
Meeting
Council Chamber
Civic Centre
Boxshall Street Brighton
Tuesday
15 March 2022
at 6:30pm
Minutes

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
PRESENT:
Chairperson: Cr Alex del Porto (Mayor)
Councillors: Cr Sonia Castelli
Cr Hanna El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor)
Cr Laurence Evans OAM
Cr Clarke Martin
Cr Jo Samuel-King MBBS
Cr Fiona Stitfold
Officers: Mick Cummins – Chief Executive Officer
Jill Colson – Director Corporate Services
Bryce Craggs – Director Community and Customer Experience
Matthew Cripps – Director City Planning and Amenity
Adam McSwain – Director Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure
Joan Andrews – Manager Community Services
Juliana Aya – Manager Urban Strategy
Terry Callant – Manager Governance
John Coates – Manager Amenity Protection
Sally Morgan – Acting Manager Communications, Engagement and Customer Experience
James Roscoe – Manager Climate, Waste and Integrated Transport
Bill Shanahan – Manager Finance
Jason Stubbs – Manager Commercial Services
Damien Van Trier – Manager Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
Newton Gatoff – Property Coordinator
Robert Lamb – Governance Officer
Page No. 2

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
Table of Contents
1. Prayer
2. Acknowledgement of Country
3. Apologies
4. Disclosure of Conflict of Interest of any Councillor
5. Adoption and Confirmation of the minutes of previous meeting
6. Public Question Time
7. Petitions to Council
7.1 Petition to implement permit parking on Gould Street, Brighton 15
7.2 Petition for Council to undertake further negotiations in relation to
the proposed Warm Water Pool at Brighton Golf Course .......... 16
8. Minutes of Advisory Committees
8.1 Records of meetings held under the auspices of Council .......... 17
8.2 Minutes of the Disability Access and Inclusion Advisory Committee
meeting held on 7 February 2022 .............................................. 18
8.3 Minutes of the Audit and Risk Committee meeting held on 21
February 2022 ........................................................................... 19
8.4 Minutes of the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee
meeting held on 23 February 2022 ............................................ 20
9. Reports by Special Committees
There were no Reports by Special Committees submitted to the meeting.
10. Reports by the Organisation
10.1 Establishment of a Delegated Committee of Council to hear
submissions to the Draft Post-War Modern Residential Heritage
Study ......................................................................................... 23
10.2 Dendy Street Beach erosion control – Long Term Options Update
.................................................................................................. 24
10.3 Draft Footpath Trading Policy 2022 ........................................... 26
10.4 Draft Domestic Animal Management Plan 2022–26: Community
Consultation .............................................................................. 28
10.5 Revised Final Draft Sustainable Building and Infrastructure Policy
.................................................................................................. 29
10.6 Investment Policy 2022 review .................................................. 30
Page No. 3

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.7 Aged Care Services .................................................................. 31
10.8 Sandringham Hospital Strategic Agreement ............................. 32
10.9 Update on the Homes for Homes Planning Permit Condition .... 33
10.10 Submission to the Inquiry into the protections within the Victorian
Planning Framework ................................................................. 34
10.11 Disability Access and Inclusion Advisory Committee - Extension to
term of membership .................................................................. 35
10.12 Review of Christmas Decorations Program 2021 and
recommendations for future implementation ............................. 36
10.13 2022 Australian Local Governance Association (ALGA) National
General Assembly of Local Government ................................... 37
10.14 Municipal Association of Victoria - State Council Meeting - Call for
Motions ...................................................................................... 38
10.15 Future Leases and Uses for Higinbotham Hall Precinct ............ 39
10.16 Proposed Lease to Optus at Balcombe Park Reserve .............. 40
10.17 CONTRACT CON/21/101 - Elsternwick Park Nature Reserve
Community Interface Infrastructure ........................................... 41
10.18 CONTRACT CON/22/22 - Microsoft Licence Renewal .............. 42
10.19 2021–22 2nd Quarter Performance Report (October- December
2021) ......................................................................................... 43
10.20 Council Action Awaiting Report ................................................. 44
11. Reports by Delegates
12. Urgent Business
13. Notices of Motion
13.1 Notice of Motion - 319 - Powerful Owl Protection - Second-
Generation Anticoagulant Rodenticides (SGARs) ..................... 46
14. Confidential Business
14.1 Minutes of the Chief Executive Officer's Employment Matters
Advisory Committee held on 9 March 2022 ............................... 47
Page No. 4

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
The Mayor declared the Council Meeting open at 6:30pm and advised members of the public
gallery that the meeting is being recorded and streamed live on the internet.
The Mayor invited Cr El Mouallem to read the prayer.
1. Prayer
Cr El Mouallem read the prayer at the commencement of the meeting.
O God
Bless this City, Bayside,
Give us courage, strength and wisdom,
So that our deliberations,
May be for the good of all,
Amen
2. Acknowledgement of Country
Cr Martin read the acknowledgement of the original inhabitants of this land.
 Bayside City Council proudly acknowledges the Bunurong People of the Kulin
Nation as the Traditional Owners and Custodians of this land, and we pay our
respects to their Elders, past, present and emerging as well as any Aboriginal or
Torres Strait Islander community members with us today.
 Council acknowledges the Bunurong’s continuing relationship to the land and
waterways and respects that their connection and spiritual identity is maintained
through ancient ceremonies, songlines, dance, art and living culture.
 Council pays tribute to the invaluable contributions of the Bunurong and other
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island Elders who have guided and continue to guide
the work we do.
3. Apologies
There were no apologies submitted to the meeting.
Page No. 5

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
4. Disclosure of Conflict of Interest of any Councillor
It is recorded that the following Councillors disclosed a conflict of interest in the following
items:
• Cr Castelli – Item 10.2 – Dendy Street Beach Erosion Control – Long Term Options
Update – General Conflict of Interest
• Cr El Mouallem – Item 10.3 – Draft Footpath Trading Policy – General Conflict of
Interest
• Cr Evans – Item 10.8 – Sandringham Hospital Strategic Agreement – General Conflict
of Interest
• Cr Samuel-King – Item 10.17 – CONTRACT CON/21/101 – Elsternwick Park Nature
Reserve Community Interface Infrastructure - General Conflict of Interest
Procedural Motion
Moved: Cr Evans Seconded: Cr Castelli
That Council:
1. considers the meeting to be adjourned for 10 minutes from the commencement of any
technical problem which prevents Council from livestreaming the meeting
2. adjourns the meeting to be reconvened on Thursday 17 March 2022 at 6:30pm via
livestreaming on Council’s website, in the event livestreaming cannot be resumed
within 30 minutes from the commencement of the technical problem which prevents
livestreaming on Council’s website.
CARRIED
5. Adoption and Confirmation of the minutes of previous meeting
5.1 Confirmation of the Minutes of the Bayside City Council Meeting held on 15 February
2022.
Moved: Cr Evans OAM Seconded: Cr Castelli
That the minutes of the Bayside City Council Meeting held on 15 February 2022, as
previously circulated, be confirmed as an accurate record of proceedings.
CARRIED
Page No. 6

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
6. Public Question Time
In accordance with Chapter 2, Section 57 of Council’s Governance Rules, 17 public
questions were submitted to the Meeting. In accordance with the resolution at the June 2021
Ordinary Meeting of Council, temporary meeting procedures with regard to public question
time are in place:
• All questions received and responses are read out at the meeting within the allotted 15
minute timeframe for public question time.
• All questions and responses read out will be recorded in the minutes.
• A written response will be provided to all questions received.
1. Mrs Melissa Beech
Ms Melissa Beech submitted a question regarding lighting at Dendy Park, and Ms Beech
asked:
Question
Can Council please consider safety lighting on the western pathway of Dendy Park adjacent
to the ovals?
Response from the CEO
Council works to strike a balance between the amenity of park users, surrounding residents,
personal safety and wildlife. Lighting of this section of path was not raised as an issue during
the development of the Dendy Park Masterplan and Victoria Police have not raised this as an
area of public safety concern. As such, Council has no plans to install path lighting in this
section of Dendy Park.
2. Mrs Mary McCauley
Mrs Mary McCauley submitted a question regarding the Draft Domestic Animal Management
Plan, and Mrs McCauley asked:
Question
With reference to the new policy re pets and wildlife, Is Council spending any time or resources
to better understand the implications of possum populations in Bayside , and the impact of
increasing density development by both Council and the State Government's policies.
Response from the CEO
The Draft Domestic Animal Management Plan applies to domestic dogs and cats and includes
proposed actions to minimise the impacts of dogs and cats on wildlife and the environment.
Council does not have any programs planned to investigate the implications of development
on possum populations.
The Bayside Biodiversity Action Plan 2018–27 seeks to maximise conservation of habitat
diversity and connectivity in public open space.
Page No. 7

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
3. Mr Paul Shields
Mr Paul Shields submitted a question regarding Council’s Post-war Modern Residential
Heritage Study, and Mr Shields asked:
Question
How can Council consider that mandatory heritage listing on a house that is less than 25
percent of its original design due to numerous extensions and remodels during the 1970s and
1980s be fair and equitable to myself and my neighbours ?
Response from the CEO
Council’s heritage consultants have assessed the property based on the information available
to them through their research.
As per correspondence, the current consultation stage of the process is intended to allow
affected property owners to provide any additional information that may influence the initial
assessment. Additional information can include photos, planning or building plans which show
that the residential building has been altered or is not ‘intact.’
Council’s heritage consultant will review any information provided and consider the
implications on the heritage value of the site. It is encouraged that this information be provided
by 30 April 2022 to ensure this is considered before the next steps in the process commence.
4. Ms Pat Carden
Ms Pat Carden submitted a question regarding the works at Dendy Beach, and Ms Carden
asked:
Question
Considering the significant disruption to Dendy Beach over this summer by ongoing major
works, does Council intend to inform interested parties eg ratepayers and bathing box
licensees of its future plans for the beach? Information has not been disseminated and ad hoc
signage is not enough.
Response from the CEO
Council has implemented a communications plan to inform beach goers of the range of works
at Dendy Street Beach, including signage. Council has also communicated to the Brighton
Beach bathing Box Owners Association regarding short and medium term works to stabilise
the beach.
Page No. 8

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
5. Mr George Reynolds
Mr George Reynolds submitted a question regarding Council’s Second Quarter Performance
Report for 2021–22 , and Mr Reynolds asked:
Question
In the 2021-22 Second Quarter Performance Report at agenda Item 10,19, Council fails to
identify its Income and expenditure on Rates and charges, as required by the Local
Government (Planning and Reporting) Regulations 2020.
Likewise, It also fails to separately identify the income and expenditure incurred in its Own
source Revenue stream as required by M3 of the Corporations Law. The financial performance
documents are of no use to users of the Council accounts.
(a) Why don't councillors seek an assurance from a competent forensic account that the
accounts are correctly prepared, AND
(b) Seek the opinion of the Commonwealth Auditor General that non-compliance with M3 of
the Corporations Law is allowed for Local Government Bodies.
Response from the CEO
(a) Council has a well credentialled Audit and Risk Management Committee which has
reviewed and endorsed the financial statements. The Chair of the committee has 25
years audit experience as an Audit Partner at Price Waterhouse Coopers.
(b) The Victorian Auditor General’s Office (VAGO) is responsible for the review and
approval of Bayside’s financial statements. VAGO has certified that the financial
statements have been completed in accordance with the Local Government Reporting
Regulations.
6. Mr George Reynolds
Mr George Reynolds submitted a further question regarding Beaumaris Reserve, and Mr
Reynolds asked:
Question
The Beaumaris Reserve changing rooms and clubhouse is being completed shortly and it is
being advertised by the soccer club as ready for use by their members.
(a) What happened to the planning permit necessary for the development and use of such a
rental facility, as determined in Bence v BCC [2020], AND
(b) Have the lease terms between the club and Bayside City Council been revised to ensure
that the provisions of s111(1)(a) of the Local Government Act 2020, will be met?
Response from the CEO
(a) As the land is owned and managed by Council, zoned Public Park Recreation Zone and
the works are valued less than $10 million a Planning Permit was not required for the
development or use of the Beaumaris Reserve Sports Pavilion.
(b) Council will meet all relevant obligations in the Local government Act 2020 while
seasonally allocating the sports pavilion to local sporting clubs.
Page No. 9

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
7. Mr Matthew Marshall
Mr Matthew Marshall submitted a question regarding Council’s Post-war Modern Residential
Heritage Study, and Mr Marshall asked:
Question
As an impacted homeowner, I am deeply distressed (again) and more importantly disillusioned
about the indecisiveness of our council decisions.
a) Surely we can put matters to bed rather than keep revisiting this. How do we get
longevity out of decisions by the council?
b) Secondly, how can I speak to a councillor about this, as all seem to be running for
cover and not meeting the impacted home owners. Whom are bearing the brunt of this
decision for the 'supposed' community benefit.
Response from the CEO
a) Identifying, documenting and protecting heritage places is a responsibility of Council
under the Planning and Environment Act 1987. Heritage protection is not a static issue
and requires ongoing attention to fulfill legislative responsibilities.
In order to have the merits thoroughly considered and debated, a planning scheme
amendment process needs to progress through the Planning Panel stage, where the
merits of each property can be comprehensively tested before an independent body.
b) The current consultation stage of the process is intended to allow affected property
owners to provide any additional information that may influence the initial assesment. It
is recommended that prior to engaging with Councillors, any relevant information is
provided to Council officers to consider.
Engagement with Councillors, including site visits, may be best left until after 30 April
when any additional information has been provided for consideration.
The appointment of a delegated committee of Council is also being considered at
tonight’s Council meeting which would enable any party to present their views directly to
all Councillors.
Page No. 10

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
8. Mrs Fiona Marshall
Mrs Fiona Marshall submitted a question regarding Council’s Post-war Modern Residential
Heritage Study, and Mrs Marshall asked:
Question
a) What does council propose home owners do to protect their privacy and
confidentiality if they have been targeted for heritage nomination?
b) And how does Bayside council suggest they will securely manage and control any
adverse affects that happen when properties are heritage listed, and are no longer
private for the occupants? Will bayside council provide paid security when these tours
are undertaken?
Response from the CEO
While property addresses have been published in the draft Post-War Modern Residential
Heritage Study, this information is already available on the internet and is not protected by
any privacy legislation. No personal details or information relating to affected property
owners as part of the study have been published.
Photos of houses can be updated if the property owner is concerned that the pictures taken
impact their privacy. All number plates have been redacted from cars in photos and will remain
redacted in the final version of the Study.
It is uncertain what ‘adverse affects’ are being referred to in relation to properties that may
become heritage listed. Bayside City Council does not currently provide for or intend to provide
mid-century architecture house tours in the future. Any concerns about inappropriate behaviour
in the public realm should be directed to police.
9. Dr Julie Janev
Dr Julie Janev submitted a question regarding Council’s Post-war Modern Residential Heritage
Study, and Dr Janev asked:
Question
a) I would like to ask how the council can justify making a bad situation worse without
giving us the funding to repair all the major works needed here?
b) If it is true that the community are in favor of heritage listing, then perhaps a ‘Heritage
levy’ can be added to rates notices too?
Response from the CEO
Works, repairs and routine maintenance which do not change the appearance of a heritage
listed place can be undertaken without a planning permit being required, standard with any
private dwelling whether heritage listed or not. Major repairs that change the appearance of an
apartment or townhouse complex may require planning permission, whether or not heritage
controls are in place. It is recommended that proponents engage with Council’s statutory
planning department to determine whether permission is required prior to undertaking any
works. Most heritage permits can be dealt with under the State Governments VicSmart
provisions and will be decided within 10 days.
A ‘heritage levy’ is a creative approach that would require support by the State Government in
order to be implemented. There is currently no foundation to support the introduction of a levy
under the current State Government planning legislation.
Page No. 11

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10. Dr Julie Janev
Dr Julie Janev submitted a further question regarding Council’s Post-war Modern Residential
Heritage Study, and Dr Janev asked:
Question
In the spirit of fairness and equal rights for all homeowners, why should we have less rights
than our neighbours, and why isn’t a more ethical decision being made here, e.g. why doesn’t
counsel buy our complex as a whole instead of reducing our return on investment potential?
Response from the CEO
The intrinsic nature of planning legislation is that it places an element of control across all land
within Victoria and sets out the land use and built form requirements.
In some locations, residential development of up to four storeys can be allowed, whereas in
other locations, this is restricted to two. Similarly, this relates to housing policy, vegetation
protection, neighbourhood character and heritage controls. In deciding the level of regulation
and protections to be applied, it must be informed by robust strategic justification that considers
the appropriate balance of achieving community vision and the needs of land owners.
Once the strategic justification has been finalised, in this case the current heritage study, the
merits can be tested through a planning scheme amendment process, with an independent
Planning Panel being appointed to consider the views of all submitters to the process. The
Panel will then make recommendations to Council and the Minister for Planning on the
appropriateness of the heritage protection.
11. Dr Zena Burgess
Dr Zena Burgess submitted a question regarding Council’s Post-war Modern Residential
Heritage Study, and Dr Burgess asked:
Question
Will council move with the debate and take a more sophisticated approach to consultation?
Response from the CEO
A Council Report (Item 10.1) is part of tonight’s agenda which seeks the establishment of a
Delegated Committee of Council to hear submissions to the draft Post-War Modern Residential
Heritage Study. If the Committee is to be established, submitters are welcomed to be heard by
Council at a future meeting.
Page No. 12

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
12. Mrs Rhonda Lipschutz
Mrs Rhonda Lipschutz submitted a question regarding the works at Dendy Beach, and Mrs
Lipschutz asked:
Question
As a double residential rate payer for home and Beach Box the council did not engage directly
with me rather than with the Bathing Box Association. I should be advised of any works or
changes at the beach. Why has there has been no information coming forward to me?
Response from the CEO
Council has communicated with the Brighton Beach Bathing Box Owners Association and
directly with the currently impacted box owners concerning short term beach erosion
mitigation, including the recent sand bag installation.
Council will communicate directly with all box owners regarding any consideration of long- term
solutions to the erosion issue at Dendy Street Beach.
13. Mrs Rhonda Lipschutz
Mrs Rhonda Lipschutz submitted a further question regarding the works at Dendy Beach, and
Mrs Lipschutz asked:
Question
Will the Council please consider other serious issues that impact on the erosion of the beach
(such as invasive weeds, broken fencing etc) and issues impacting on the reputation of the
council and the status of this iconic beach (such as inadequate lighting, no CCTV cameras,
unsafe pathways, toxic plants and inadequate water supplies, substandard toilets etc)?
Response from the CEO
Council is working through the erosion issue at Dendy Street Beach, has implemented short-
term mitigations including sandbagging in front of the most at-risk boxes and is finalising plans
to renourish the beach to provide a short-medium solution for beach erosion.
Council is considering a report at tonight’s Meeting that may provide further direction for the
next stages of investigating long term mitigation of the beach erosion issue.
Page No. 13

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
14. Ms Lea Jaensch
Ms Lea Jaensch submitted a question regarding Council’s Post-war Modern Residential
Heritage Study, and Ms Jaensch asked:
Question
Can you please tell me what information is gathered on the circumstances of the individual
home owners, and the likely implications on them, as part of the draft heritage study?
Response from the CEO
The purpose of a heritage study is to consider the significance of heritage places within the
municipality. A heritage place could include a site, area, building, group of buildings, structure,
archaeological site, tree, garden, geological formation, fossil site, habitat or other place of
natural or cultural significance and its associated land.
Information relating to current land owners is generally not a consideration, unless this is
intrinsically tied to the significance of the place. The Statement of Significance sets out the
reasons why a place is considered to be significant.
In relation to the Draft Post-War Modern Residential Heritage Study, property owners’ details
have been limited to names and addresses for public consultation purposes.
Given the 15 minutes allocated to Public Question Time had expired the remaining 3 questions
from Ms Lea Jaensch and Ms Fiona Quinn were not read out and responded to at the meeting.
A response will be provided in writing to these questions.
Page No. 14

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
7. Petitions to Council
7.1 PETITION TO IMPLEMENT PERMIT PARKING ON GOULD STREET,
BRIGHTON
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Climate, Waste and Integrated Transport
File No: PSF/22/31 – Doc No: DOC/22/51234
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Castelli
That the petition be received, and a report be submitted to the May 2022 Council Meeting
cycle for consideration.
CARRIED
Page No. 15

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
7.2 PETITION FOR COUNCIL TO UNDERTAKE FURTHER NEGOTIATIONS
IN RELATION TO THE PROPOSED WARM WATER POOL AT
BRIGHTON GOLF COURSE
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
File No: PSF/22/27 – Doc No: DOC/22/67277
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor)
That the petition be referred to the Chief Executive Officer for consideration and response.
CARRIED
Page No. 16

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
8. Minutes of Advisory Committees
8.1 RECORDS OF MEETINGS HELD UNDER THE AUSPICES OF COUNCIL
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/22/31 – Doc No: DOC/22/51187
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council notes the records of meeting/s held under the auspices of Council as required
by the Local Government Act 2020 and Council’s Governance Rules:
• 22 February 2022 Strategic Issues Discussion
• 1 March 2022 Councillor Briefing.
CARRIED
Page No. 17

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
8.2 MINUTES OF THE DISABILITY ACCESS AND INCLUSION ADVISORY
COMMITTEE MEETING HELD ON 7 FEBRUARY 2022
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/22/31 – Doc No: DOC/22/34573
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor)
That Council notes the minutes of the Disability Access and Inclusion Advisory Committee
meeting held on 7 February 2022.
CARRIED
Page No. 18

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
8.3 MINUTES OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING HELD ON
21 FEBRUARY 2022
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/22/31 – Doc No: DOC/22/55447
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council:
1. notes the minutes of the Audit and Risk Committee meeting held on 21 February 2022
(contained in Confidential Attachment 1)
2. adopts the following recommendations of the Audit and Risk Committee:
Item 9.1.1. – Strategic Risk Register Review
That the Audit and Risk Committee:
1. notes the six-monthly review of the Strategic Risks and the associated treatment
actions
2. notes the review of the 12 strategic risks by management and recommends to
Council that the review of the Strategic Risks be noted.
Item 9.1.4 – Risk Management Policy Review
That the Audit and Risk Committee recommends to Council that the revised Risk
Management Policy dated February 2021, be adopted.
CARRIED
Page No. 19

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
8.4 MINUTES OF THE BAYSIDE ARTS AND GALLERY ADVISORY
COMMITTEE MEETING HELD ON 23 FEBRUARY 2022
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/22/31 – Doc No: DOC/22/61739
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council notes the minutes of the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee meeting
held on 23 February 2022.
CARRIED
Page No. 20

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
9. Reports by Special Committees
There were no Reports by Special Committees submitted to the meeting.
10. Reports by the Organisation
REQUESTS TO BE HEARD:
The Mayor noted that temporary changes to the Council meeting procedures are in place with
regard to Chapter 2, Division 10 of Council’s Governance Rules (Individual Presentations),
whereby:
• in place of speaking in-person at a Council / Committee meeting, members of the
public may submit a written statement (maximum of four (4) A4 single pages) which
must be sent electronically, or delivered to Council's Corporate Centre, by 9:00am on
the day of the meeting
• written statements received after 9:00am on the day of the meeting will not be
considered by the meeting
• a person may only make a written statement to an Ordinary Meeting/Special
Committee Meeting in relation to an item listed in the agenda under Reports by the
Organisation, and even then not if the item is in the nature of a report summarising a
decision already made by another body; or if the report relates to a Tender Report
relating to the awarding of a contract
• in accordance with Chapter 2, Section 83(1) of Council’s Governance Rules 2020, any
statement which is derogatory, or defamatory of any Councillor, member of Council
staff, or member of the community may not be accepted
• where a person has formally made a written statement in relation to an item on the
agenda, the statement will be provided to all councillors in advance of the meeting
• written statements are not confidential and, following the closure for receipt of
statements, will be published (including first and last names only) on Council’s website
as an attachment to the Agenda for the relevant meeting
• written statements will not be read out at the meeting; however, the Chairperson will
advise the meeting of the number of statements received to each item.
The following individuals submitted written statements to the meeting:
Item 10.1 Establishment of a Delegated Committee of Council to hear submissions
to the Draft Post-War Modern Residential Heritage Study
1. Ms Felicity Watson (on behalf of National Trust of Australia – Victoria)
2. Mrs Fiona Austin
3. Mr Andrew Jessop & Ms Nareewan Wongle
4. Dr Zena Burgess
5. Mr Peter Corfield
6. Ms Marika Okkas
7. Ms Yulia Zlatkin
Page No. 21

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
8. Mr Neill Wiffin
9. Ms Annie Price (on behalf of Beaumaris Modern)
10. Ms Sandra Collins
11. Mr Darryl Behrendorff
12. Mr Peter Hodges
13. Mrs Litsa Chorianopoulos
14. Ms Kate Murphy & Dennis Goldner AM
15. Mr Frank Pothitos
16. Mrs Michelle Tinsley
Item 10.2 Dendy Street Beach erosion control – Long Term Options Update
1. Ms Fiona Quinn
2. Mrs Rhonda Lipschutz
Item 10.4 Draft Domestic Animal Management Plan 2022–26: Community
Consultation
1. Ms Linda Kiernan
2. Mrs Roseann Lenihan
3. Ms Patricia Smyth
Item 10.15 Future Leases and Uses for Higinbotham Hall Precinct
1. Mr Roger Jones
Page No. 22

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.1 ESTABLISHMENT OF A DELEGATED COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL TO
HEAR SUBMISSIONS TO THE DRAFT POST-WAR MODERN
RESIDENTIAL HERITAGE STUDY
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/22/35 – Doc No: DOC/22/60116
It is recorded that Ms Felicity Watson (on behalf of National Trust of Australia –Victoria),
Mrs Fiona Austin, Mr Andrew Jessop & Ms Nareewan Wongle, Dr Zena Burgess, Mr Peter
Corfield, Ms Marika Okkas, Ms Yulia Zlatkin, Mr Neill Wiffin, Ms Annie Price (on behalf of
Beaumaris Modern), Ms Sandra Collins, Mr Darryl Behrendorff, Mr Peter Hodges, Mrs
Litsa Chorianopoulos, Ms Kate Murphy & Dennis Goldner AM, Mr Frank Pothitos, and Mrs
Michelle Tinsley each submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
That Council:
1. establishes a Draft Post-War Modern Residential Heritage Study Delegated Committee
in accordance with Section 61 of the Local Government Act 2020, with the sole purpose
to hear submissions in relation to the Draft Post-War Modern Residential Heritage Study
to be held on Tuesday 24 May 2022 commencing at 5.00pm. The Delegated
Committee to consist of all Councillors, with a quorum of 4 Councillors
2. in accordance with Chapter 3 of the Governance Rules, section 2, resolves to hear all
submitters with no limitation to the number of speakers (as per Section 62 (1) of the
Governance Rules) with a time limit of three minutes per submitter
3. notes that the Draft Post-War Modern Residential Heritage Study Delegated Committee
has no formal delegated powers other than to hear submissions only. Any decision-
making process will be undertaken by a meeting of Council
4. notes Section 64(10) of the Governance Rules where a submitter has been heard at a
Delegated Committee established for that purpose to hear submissions, no further
opportunity will be afforded to make a presentation on the subject matter when it is
considered at a Council Meeting
5. writes to all stakeholders advising of the meeting and process for lodging a submission
and request to be heard.
CARRIED
Page No. 23

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.2 DENDY STREET BEACH EROSION CONTROL – LONG TERM OPTIONS
UPDATE
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
File No: PSF/22/27 – Doc No: DOC/22/63411
It is recorded that Cr Castelli declared a general conflict of interest in this item given her
partner owns a Bathing Box at Dendy Beach. Cr Castelli left the Meeting at 7:00 pm prior
to the discussion being held on the matter.
It is recorded that Ms Fiona Quinn, and Mrs Rhonda Lipschutz each submitted a written
statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council:
1. in consideration of the high rates of beach erosion at Dendy Street Beach, undertakes
further investigation, modelling and preliminary environmental impact assessments for
both the breakwater and groyne options outlined in this report
2. consults on long-term mitigation options with key stakeholders including:
• Brighton Bathing Box Association
• Brighton Lifesaving Club
• Friends of Brighton Dunes
• Brighton Preservation Association
• Bathing Box Owners
• Brighton Icebergers
3. presents the outcome of these works and stakeholder consultation at a future Council
meeting no later than 16 August 2022.
AMENDMENT
Moved: Cr Stitfold Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. in consideration of the high rates of beach erosion at Dendy Street Beach, undertakes
further investigation, modelling and preliminary environmental impact assessments for
both the breakwater and groyne options outlined in this report
2. consults on long-term mitigation options with key stakeholders including:
• Brighton Bathing Box Association
• Brighton Lifesaving Club
• Friends of Brighton Dunes
• Brighton Preservation Association
• Bathing Box Owners
• Brighton Icebergers
Page No. 24

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
3. presents the outcome of these works and stakeholder consultation at a future Council
meeting no later than 16 August 2022
4. acknowledges that the implementation of any long-term mitigation option will have an
impact on the local natural environment and that the sourcing, transportation and
installation of any structure will result in significant carbon emissions.
CARRIED
The AMENDMENT became the MOTION.
The MOTION was then put to the vote and CARRIED
It is recorded that Cr Castelli was not present in the meeting during debate or when the vote
was taken on this item. Cr Castelli returned to the Meeting at 7:27 pm.
Page No. 25

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.3 DRAFT FOOTPATH TRADING POLICY 2022
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/22/35 – Doc No: DOC/22/54625
It is recorded that Cr El Mouallem declared a general conflict of interest in this item given
his wife is a business owner within Church Street Shopping Centre. Cr El Mouallem
(Deputy Mayor) left the Meeting at 7:29 pm prior to the discussion being held on this
matter.
Moved: Cr Stitfold Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
That Council:
1. adopts the Footpath Trading Policy 2022–25 (Attachment 1) subject to:
a. the ability to vary the kerb zone clearance areas adjacent to angled parking
spaces by up to 200mm subject to:
i. the provision of a physical barrier between the kerb zone and the
trading zone
b. the requirement that all footpath trading furniture must not exceed a height of
1.2 metres
c. a transitional requirement for all gas heaters to be discontinued as part of the
2023 permit renewal process
d. that footpath trading must cease as of 11pm nightly
2. amends the Local Law Guidelines by deleting the Footpath Trading Policy 2018 and
replacing with the Footpath Trading Policy 2022–25 of the Local Law Guidelines
3. authorises the CEO (or the appropriate delegate) to notify the community of the
amendment to the Local Law Guidelines via Council’s website.
AMENDMENT
Moved: Cr Evans OAM Seconded: Cr Castelli
That Council:
1. adopts the Footpath Trading Policy 2022–25 (Attachment 1) subject to:
a. the ability to vary the kerb zone clearance areas adjacent to angled parking
spaces by up to 200mm subject to:
i. the provision of a physical barrier between the kerb zone and the
trading zone
b. the requirement that all footpath trading furniture must not exceed a height of
1.2 metres
c. a transitional requirement for all gas heaters to be discontinued as part of the
2025 permit renewal process
Page No. 26

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
d. that footpath trading must cease as of 11pm nightly
2. amends the Local Law Guidelines by deleting the Footpath Trading Policy 2018 and
replacing with the Footpath Trading Policy 2022–25 of the Local Law Guidelines
3. authorises the CEO (or the appropriate delegate) to notify the community of the
amendment to the Local Law Guidelines via Council’s website.
CARRIED
The AMENDMENT became the MOTION.
The MOTION was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto (Mayor), Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli, Jo
Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona Stitfold and Laurence Evans OAM
(6)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
It is recorded that Cr El Mouallem was not present in the meeting during debate or when the
vote was taken on this item. Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) returned to the Meeting at 7:41
pm.
Page No. 27

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.4 DRAFT DOMESTIC ANIMAL MANAGEMENT PLAN 2022–26:
COMMUNITY CONSULTATION
City Planning and Amenity - Amenity Protection
File No: PSF/22/37 – Doc No: DOC/22/46556
It is recorded that Ms Linda Kiernan, Mrs Roseann Lenihan, and Ms Patricia Smyth each
submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Martin
Part A
That Council:
1. approves commencement of community engagement on the draft Domestic Animal
Management Plan 2022–26 in March/April 2022, subject to the following change:
a. deletion of the reference to the removal of dog off leash areas adjacent to
Ricketts Point Marine Sanctuary on page 37 of the draft
b. modify the timing of 10.2 action that reads “Review Dog off leash restrictions
adjacent to Ricket Point Marine Sanctuary and all beaches” to year four of the
plan
2. receives a further report at the Ordinary Meeting of Council on 17 May 2022 to
consider any submissions received, prior to the adoption of the Domestic Animal
Management Plan 2022–26.
Part B
That Council receives a report by no later than 16 August 2022 detailing the process
involved to consider multiple open spaces throughout Bayside for the future provision of a
secure dog park.
CARRIED
Page No. 28

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.5 REVISED FINAL DRAFT SUSTAINABLE BUILDING AND
INFRASTRUCTURE POLICY
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Climate, Waste and Integrated Transport
File No: PSF/21/36 – Doc No: DOC/21/397199
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council:
1. notes the changes to the revised Final Draft Sustainable Building and Infrastructure
Policy in response to community and Councillor feedback
2. adopts the Sustainable Building and Infrastructure Policy 2022 (Attachment 2 to this
report).
CARRIED
Page No. 29

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.6 INVESTMENT POLICY 2022 REVIEW
Corporate Services - Finance
File No: PSF/22/32 – Doc No: DOC/22/63383
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Castelli
That Council
1. adopts the attached Investment Policy
2. advocates via the Market Forces website to the major banks regarding their lending
to the fossil fuel industry.
CARRIED
Page No. 30

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.7 AGED CARE SERVICES
Community and Customer Experience - Community Services
File No: PSF/22/39 – Doc No: DOC/22/50371
Moved: Cr Evans OAM Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council
1. acknowledges the importance of older persons in the community to have choice in
selecting Council as their service provider, as their needs become more complex,
and they wish to remain at home
2. endorses the expansion of its existing aged care services to include the delivery of
Home Care Packages (HCP).
The MOTION was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto (Mayor), Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli, Jo
Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona Stitfold, Laurence Evans OAM and
Hanna El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) (7)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
Page No. 31

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.8 SANDRINGHAM HOSPITAL STRATEGIC AGREEMENT
Community and Customer Experience - Community Services
File No: PSF/22/39 – Doc No: DOC/22/50399
It is recorded that Cr Evans declared a general conflict of interest in this item given he is a
Board Member of Fairway Bayside Aged Care. Cr Evans left the Meeting at 8:23 pm prior
to the discussion being held on the matter.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council
1. continues to identify, facilitate and support collaborative actions and opportunities to
formalise arrangements with Alfred Health, Fairway Bayside Aged Care and Family Life
Fern Street Children’s Centre to achieve positive outcomes for the community
2. receives an updated report at the March 2023 Council Meeting on the collaboration.
CARRIED
It is recorded that Cr Evans was not present in the meeting during debate or when the vote
was taken on this item. Cr Evans returned to the Meeting at 8:29 pm.
Page No. 32

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.9 UPDATE ON THE HOMES FOR HOMES PLANNING PERMIT CONDITION
City Planning and Amenity - Development Services
File No: PSF/22/35 – Doc No: DOC/22/64227
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor)
That Council:
1. ceases placing the Homes for Homes conditions on any permit until such time that the
Affordable Housing Strategy is more advanced and considered to be a seriously
entertained document
2. places a note on any multi-dwelling planning permit advising/encouraging applicants
to voluntarily commit to the Homes for Homes initiative.
CARRIED
Page No. 33

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.10 SUBMISSION TO THE INQUIRY INTO THE PROTECTIONS WITHIN THE
VICTORIAN PLANNING FRAMEWORK
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/22/35 – Doc No: DOC/22/62718
Moved: Cr Evans OAM Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council:
1. endorses the officers’ submission made to the Inquiry into the protections within the
Victorian Planning Framework
2. receives a report on the Committees findings and interim report once made publicly
available.
CARRIED
Page No. 34

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.11 DISABILITY ACCESS AND INCLUSION ADVISORY COMMITTEE -
EXTENSION TO TERM OF MEMBERSHIP
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
File No: PSF/22/27 – Doc No: DOC/22/13212
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor)
That Council endorses an extension to the current term of the Disability Access and Inclusion
Advisory Committee membership until 10 May 2022 – the membership consisting of the
following committee members:
Councillors:
Cr Clarke Martin (Chairperson)
Cr Hanna El Mouallem
External Members:
Ms Emily Costello
Mr Ade Djajamihardja
Mr Mark Glascodine
Ms Jo Levett
Mr Jeff Naylor
Ms Emma Olivier
Mr Sam Seoud
Mr Andrew Turner
Ms Natarsha Warren
Ms Tara Webb.
CARRIED
Page No. 35

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.12 REVIEW OF CHRISTMAS DECORATIONS PROGRAM 2021 AND
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FUTURE IMPLEMENTATION
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/22/35 – Doc No: DOC/22/63215
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor)
That Council:
1. expands the placement of Christmas decorations to include the smaller activity centres
commencing in 2022
2. receives a report by February 2023 that outlines the gradual Christmas/festive season
decorations program expansion including new criteria, centres to be included per year
and indicative cost to inform 2023–24 and beyond budget discussions
3. proceeds with two pop-up installations in 2022 – one in Were Street, Brighton and the
second at the activity centre at the corner of Bluff and Highett Roads
4. engages with local cultural groups to explore the potential expansion of the program
that supports community inclusion
5. continues with the planning and delivery of activations in activity centres that have a
good retail mix and a higher visitor and shopper footfall
6. considers the increase in the operating budget allocation for Christmas and festive
decorations program from $130k to $195k to support the delivery of the two additional
pop-up installations and small activity centres in 2022 and required maintenance and
repairs as part of the 2022–23 budget process.
CARRIED
Page No. 36

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.13 2022 AUSTRALIAN LOCAL GOVERNANCE ASSOCIATION (ALGA)
NATIONAL GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/22/31 – Doc No: DOC/22/63112
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr Castelli
That Council
1. approves the attendance of the Mayor Cr del Porto and Crs Evans, Martin and Samuel-
King at the ALGA National Assembly to be held in Canberra from 19 to 22 June 2022
2. submits the following motion to the National General Assembly:
Wildlife Friendly Lighting Standards
That the National General Assembly calls on the Australian Government to develop
Wildlife Friendly Lighting Standards.
CARRIED
Page No. 37

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.14 MUNICIPAL ASSOCIATION OF VICTORIA - STATE COUNCIL MEETING
- CALL FOR MOTIONS
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/22/31 – Doc No: DOC/22/63392
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council endorses the following motions to be put forward at the MAV State Council
Meeting to be held on 24 June 2022:
Mental Health Support for Young People
That the MAV calls on the State Government to investigate and explore partnership
opportunities between local government and other agencies supporting Youth Mental Health
services to ensure young people (up to age of 30 years) in isolated and public transport
deprived areas, and overseas students currently residing in Victoria gain access to
appropriate and relevant youth mental health services that are affordable for young people
to access.
Barbed Wire
That the MAV calls on urban municipalities to adopt a policy to manage the use of barbed
wire or eliminate where possible the use of barbed wire on Council owned land to reduce
impacts to native wildlife.
Uluru Statement from the Heart
That the MAV call upon all Victorian local government authorities to support the Uluru
Statement from the Heart which calls on the Australian people to walk with First Nations in
a people’s movement for Voice, Treaty and Truth, and encourage all Councils to write to
their respective Federal Member of Parliament calling on the Australian Government to
support Constitutional Recognition for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and the
key principles of the “Uluru Statement from the Heart”.
Wildlife Friendly Lighting Policy
That the MAV calls on all councils to consider developing a wildlife friendly lighting policy.
Managing Noisy Miners
That the MAV calls on the State Government as part of the review of the (Victorian) Wildlife
Act 1975, to address the increasing issue of Noisy Miners and their negative impact on other
native birds.
CARRIED
Page No. 38

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.15 FUTURE LEASES AND USES FOR HIGINBOTHAM HALL PRECINCT
Corporate Services - Commercial Services
File No: PSF/22/34 – Doc No: DOC/22/63901
It is recorded that Mr Roger Jones submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council:
1. accepts the offer by Southern FM to establish a new lease of 9 years 364 days with a
commencement rent of $7,272pa, subject to annual CPI increases over the term
2. accepts the offer by Brighton Dance Studio for a new lease of 3x3x3 years with a
commencement rent of $35,000 in Year 1, $50,000 in Year 2 and $70,000 in Year 3
for Brighton Dance Studio with market rent reviews at the commencement of each of
the following two terms
3. resolves to terminate the Committee of Management for Higinbotham Hall and for
the Mayor to write to the Committee to thank them for their many years of service to
the community
4. seeks a design and cost estimate for the erection of a green fence to provide tenants
access to the rear of the Parliament Street building, for the demolition of brick-
outbuildings and construction of a small public garden open to Parliament Street and
consider as part of the 2022–23 budget and capital works process.
CARRIED
Page No. 39

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.16 PROPOSED LEASE TO OPTUS AT BALCOMBE PARK RESERVE
Corporate Services - Commercial Services
File No: PSF/22/34 – Doc No: DOC/22/43463
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council, in accordance with Section 115 of the Local Government Act 2020 (the Act),
authorises the Director of Corporate Services to execute a new Lease with Optus Mobile Pty
Ltd in accordance with the Heads of Agreement provided in Attachment 1, for the occupation
of part of Balcombe Park Reserve, 472 Balcombe Road, Beaumaris VIC 3193, under the
following terms:
Site: Balcombe Park Reserve, Beaumaris
Tenant: Optus Mobile Pty Ltd
Purpose: Construction, maintaining and operating a telecommunications network and
telecommunications service
Premises: Part of land at Balcombe Park Reserve, 472 Balcombe Road, Beaumaris
VIC 3193
Commencement Date: 1 January 2021
Term: 10 years
Further Term: 2 further terms of 5 years each
Commencing Annual Rent: $20,000 + GST
Rent Escalation: Fixed 3% on the anniversary of the commencement date.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.16 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Page No. 40

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.17 CONTRACT CON/21/101 - ELSTERNWICK PARK NATURE RESERVE
COMMUNITY INTERFACE INFRASTRUCTURE
Corporate Services - Commercial Services
File No: PSF/22/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/312257
It is recorded that Cr Samuel-King declared a general conflict of interest in this item given
her partner was part of the evaluation panel for the contract. Cr Samuel-King MBBS left the
Meeting at 9:23 pm prior to the discussion being held on the matter.
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council:
1. awards Contract CON/21/101 Elsternwick Park Nature Reserve Community Interface
Infrastructure to Fleetwood urban Pty Ltd (ABN 40 000 789 748) for the lump sum price
of $962,948 (excl. GST) and $1,059,242 (including GST)
2. authorises the Chief Executive Officer to sign all necessary documentation related to
Contract CON/21/101 Elsternwick Park Nature Reserve Community Interface
Infrastructure
3. advises the unsuccessful tenderers accordingly.
CARRIED
It is recorded that Cr Samuel-King was not present in the meeting during debate or when the
vote was taken on this item. Cr Samuel-King MBBS returned to the Meeting at 9:25 pm.
Page No. 41

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.18 CONTRACT CON/22/22 - MICROSOFT LICENCE RENEWAL
Corporate Services - Information Technology
File No: PSF/22/30 – Doc No: DOC/22/60476
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council:
1. accepts the quoted price for (contract number CON/22/22) supply of Microsoft
Licences from Data#3 Limited (ABN 65 486 719 651), for the total sum, over 3 years,
of $1,458,083 (Excl. GST)
2. authorises the Chief Executive Officer to sign all necessary documentation related to
contract number CON/22/22.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.18 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Page No. 42

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.19 2021–22 2ND QUARTER PERFORMANCE REPORT (OCTOBER-
DECEMBER 2021)
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/22/31 – Doc No: DOC/22/33336
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council notes the 2021–22 2nd Quarter Performance Report for the period October to
December 2021.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.19 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Page No. 43

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
10.20 COUNCIL ACTION AWAITING REPORT
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/22/31 – Doc No: DOC/22/51190
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council notes the Council Action Awaiting Report.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.20 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Page No. 44

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
11. Reports by Delegates
1. Association of Bayside Municipalities – Crs Fiona Stitfold and Clarke Martin reported
that the ABM has now established quarterly meetings to update Councillors on the
activities of the ABM and to share ideas. The first meeting is scheduled to be held on 30
March.
The ABM also provided a submission to the Department of Environment, Land, Water
and Planning in response to the Draft Coastal and Marine Management Plan Guidelines.
The ABM was also advised that the Port Phillip Bay Coastal Hazard Assessment is
continuing with a new project manager.
2. Metropolitan Transport Forum – The Director Environment, Recreation &
Infrastructure indicated he attended the March meeting of the Forum where the Forum
heard a presentation from the Grattan Institute on a Car Plan for the future of Melbourne.
3. Municipal Association of Victoria – The Mayor, Cr Alex del Porto reported that the
MAV has not had a meeting. The next State Council Meeting will be held on 24 June
2022.
4. Inner South Metropolitan Mayors’ Forum – The Mayor, Cr Alex del Porto indicated
that these Forums will re-commence next month.
5. Metropolitan Local Government Waste Forum – Cr Clarke Martin indicated that no
meeting was held since the previous Forum
6. South East Councils Climate Change Alliance – Crs Clarke Martin and Fiona Stitfold
indicated the next meeting is scheduled for March. SECCCA have indicated that it would
be advocating at the next election for Carbon Emission Targets. SECCA also indicated
that it would continue to advocate to the State Government on all matters relating to Port
Phillip and Western Port Bays.
Moved: Cr Evans Seconded: Cr Castelli
That the Reports by Delegates be received and noted.
CARRIED
12. Urgent Business
There were no items of urgent business submitted to the meeting.
Page No. 45

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
13. Notices of Motion
13.1 NOTICE OF MOTION - 319 - POWERFUL OWL PROTECTION - SECOND-
GENERATION ANTICOAGULANT RODENTICIDES (SGARS)
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/22/70181
Procedural Motion
Moved: Cr Evans Seconded: Cr El Mouallem
That Council grants Cr Samuel-King leave to amend Notice of Motion 319.
CARRIED
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council:
1. phases out the use of the Second-Generation Anticoagulant Rodenticide (SGAR)
and implements suitable alternatives across Council properties and open spaces,
and receives a report at or before the June 2022 Council meeting on the alternative
methods available
2. supports a motion to be put before the Australian Local Government Association
National Congress calling on the Australian Government to recognise the harmful
impacts of second-generation rodenticides and prohibits their use in Australia and
promotes alternative methods of rodent management
3. supports a motion to be put before the Municipal Association of Victoria State
Council meeting:
• calling on the State Government to recognise the harmful impacts of second-
generation rodenticides and prohibits their use in Victoria and establish a
taskforce to investigate and promote alternative methods of rodent
management
• seeking other municipalities to cease the use of the Second-Generation
Anticoagulant Rodenticide (SGAR) and implements suitable alternatives
across Council properties and open spaces
4. if feasible, due to engagement timeframes, makes a submission to the Review of
Anticoagulant Rodenticides currently being completed by the Australian Pesticides
and Veterinary Medicines Authority in line with the motion being put to the
Australian Local Government Association National Congress
5. notes its ongoing commitment to managing rodents across the Bayside
Municipality.
CARRIED
Page No. 46

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 15 March 2022
14. Confidential Business
Moved: Cr Evans OAM Seconded: Cr Martin
That pursuant to Section 66(2)(a) of the Local Government Act 2020 (the Act), the
Council resolves that so much of this meeting be closed to members of the public, as it
involves Council consideration of matters coming within some or all of the following
categories listed in Section 3(1) (confidential information) of such Act:
(a) Council business information
(b) security information
(c) land use planning information
(d) law enforcement information
(e) legal privileged information
(f) personal information
(g) private commercial information, being information provided by a business,
commercial or financial undertaking that—
(i) relates to trade secrets; or
(ii) if released, would unreasonably expose the business, commercial or financial
undertaking to disadvantage;
(h) confidential meeting information
(i) internal arbitration information
(j) Councillor Conduct Panel confidential information
(k) information prescribed by the regulations to be confidential information for the
purposes of this definition
(l) information that was confidential information for the purposes of section 77 of the
Local Government Act 1989.
CARRIED
Table of Contents
14.1 MINUTES OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S EMPLOYMENT MATTERS
ADVISORY COMMITTEE HELD ON 9 MARCH 2022
(LGA 2020 Section 3(1)(f) personal information, being information which if released
would result in the unreasonable disclosure of information about any person or their
personal affairs.)
Following consideration of Confidential Business, the Mayor declared the meeting closed at
9.51pm.
Page No. 47

