Council
Meeting
Council Chamber
Civic Centre
Boxshall Street Brighton
Tuesday
16 August 2022
at 6:30pm
Minutes

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
PRESENT:
Chairperson: Cr Alex del Porto (Mayor)
Councillors: Cr Sonia Castelli
Cr Hanna El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor)
Cr Laurence Evans OAM
Cr Clarke Martin
Cr Jo Samuel-King MBBS
Cr Fiona Stitfold
Officers: Mick Cummins – Chief Executive Officer
Juliana Aya – Acting Director City Planning and Amenity
Tilla Buden – Director Community and Customer Experience
Jill Colson – Acting Director Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure
Kathryn Tozer – Acting Director Corporate Services
Belinda Austin – Manager Project Services
Terry Callant – Manager Governance
Fiona Farrand – Manager Development Services
Kristy Green – Manager Customer, Libraries and Cultural Services
James Roscoe – Manager Climate, Waste and Integrated Transport
Jason Stubbs – Manager Commercial Services
Tom Vercoe – Acting Manager Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
Sarah Collins – Statutory Planning Coordinator
Sally Morgan – External Communications and Media Coordinator
Robert Lamb – Governance Officer
Page No. 2

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
Table of Contents
1. Prayer
2. Acknowledgement of Country
3. Apologies
4. Disclosure of Conflict of Interest of any Councillor
5. Adoption and Confirmation of the minutes of previous meeting
6. Public Question Time
7. Petitions to Council
There were no petitions submitted to the meeting.
8. Minutes of Advisory Committees
8.1 Minutes of the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee
meeting held on 13 July 2022 .................................................... 10
8.2 Records of meetings held under the auspices of Council .......... 12
9. Reports by Special Committees
There were no reports by Special Committees submitted to the meeting.
10. Reports by the Organisation
10.1 Future provision of a secure dog park ....................................... 14
10.2 Proposed Billilla Advisory Committee Charter ........................... 15
10.3 Review of Planning and Amenity Committee Delegations ......... 16
10.4 Proposed Bicycle Route Connecting Cheltenham and
Sandringham ............................................................................. 18
10.5 Bayside Sportsground Pavilion Utilisation Proposal .................. 19
10.6 Annual Community Grants Allocation 2022–23 ......................... 20
10.7 Elsternwick Park Nature Reserve Committee Membership -
Interim Update ........................................................................... 21
10.8 Dendy Street Beach Erosion Control - Long Term Options Update
.................................................................................................. 22
10.9 Integrated Transport Strategy 2018–28 Implementation Progress
.................................................................................................. 23
10.10 Proposed discontinuance and sale of road adjoining 8 Wolseley
Street and 11A & 11B Worthing Road, Highett.......................... 24
Page No. 3

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
10.11 CONTRACT CON/20/122 Construction of Fern Street Children's
Centre ....................................................................................... 25
10.12 Council Action Awaiting Report ................................................. 26
11. Reports by Delegates
12. Urgent Business
13. Notices of Motion
14. Confidential Business
14.1 Minutes of the Chief Executive Officer's Employment Matters
Advisory Committee held on 1 August 2022.............................. 29
Page No. 4

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
The Mayor declared the Council Meeting open at 6:30pm and advised members of the public
gallery that the meeting is being recorded and streamed live on the internet to enhance the
accessibility of Council meetings to the broader Bayside community.
The Mayor invited Cr Samuel-King to read the prayer.
1. Prayer
Cr Samuel-King read the prayer at the commencement of the meeting.
O God
Bless this City, Bayside,
Give us courage, strength and wisdom,
So that our deliberations,
May be for the good of all,
Amen
2. Acknowledgement of Country
Cr Evans read the acknowledgement of the original inhabitants of this land.
 Bayside City Council proudly acknowledges the Bunurong People of the Kulin
Nation as the Traditional Owners and Custodians of this land, and we pay our
respects to their Elders, past, present and emerging as well as any Aboriginal or
Torres Strait Islander community members with us today.
 Council acknowledges the Bunurong’s continuing relationship to the land and
waterways and respects that their connection and spiritual identity is maintained
through ancient ceremonies, songlines, dance, art and living culture.
 Council pays tribute to the invaluable contributions of the Bunurong and other
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island Elders who have guided and continue to guide
the work we do.
Page No. 5

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
3. Apologies
It is recorded that the Mayor Cr del Porto sought leave of absence for the period 24 August to
5 September 2022, noting there are no formal meetings of Council during the period, and
further indicated he wishes to suspend his mayoral allowance during this absence.
Moved: Cr Samuel-King (MBBS) Seconded: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor)
That the Mayor Cr del Porto be granted leave of absence for the period 24 August to 5
September 2022, noting there are no formal meetings of Council during the period, and noting
the Mayor’s request to suspend the mayoral allowance during this period of absence.
CARRIED
4. Disclosure of Conflict of Interest of any Councillor
Cr Castelli declared a General Conflict of Interest in Item 10.8 – Dendy Street Beach Erosion
Control – Long Term Options Update given her partner owns a bathing box at Dendy Beach.
5. Adoption and Confirmation of the minutes of previous meeting
5.1 Confirmation of the Minutes of the Council meeting held on 19 July 2022.
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Martin
That the minutes of the Council meeting held on 19 July 2022, as previously circulated, be
confirmed as an accurate record of proceedings.
CARRIED
Page No. 6

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
6. Public Question Time
In accordance with the resolution at the June 2021 Council Meeting, temporary meeting
procedures with regard to public question time remain in place:
• All questions received and responses are read out at the meeting within the allotted 15
minute timeframe for public question time.
• All questions and responses read out will be recorded in the minutes.
• A written response will be provided to all questions received.
1. Mr Jeff Naylor
Mr Jeff Naylor submitted a question regarding Changing Places facilities in Council’s
community buildings and Mr Naylor asked:
Question
a) When will Council get serious about genuine inclusion and make CPTBs mandatory for
any plan submission for community building upgrades & accessible from inside and
outside the community buildings?
b) Has Council applied for the latest Vic State Gov't funding for CPTBs and if so, for which
location?
Response from the CEO
a) Council adopted its Disability Action Plan 2021–25 at the 26 October 2021 Council
Meeting. The Action Plan sets out Council’s approach to improve disability access
and inclusion in Bayside over four years, and includes the following action:
‘Develop a strategic plan and investigate opportunities for a network of Changing
Places facilities throughout Bayside.’
The plan foreshadows some possible guidance on locations but does not reference
installing Changing Places facilities across all of its building portfolio. In recent years,
Council has constructed Changing Places facilities at the Thomas Street Playground
in Hampton and at Well Street, Brighton, and has plans to install three additional
proposals for Half Moon Bay, Brighton Recreation Centre and Yalukit Willam Nature
Reserve.
b) The current Changing Places funding round is open for grants of up to $180,000 for
the construction of a Changing Places facility in their local community and at popular
tourism destinations. The funding round opened on 19 July 2022 and closes on 2
September 2022 and Council is currently preparing its application.
Page No. 7

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
2. Mr Kevin Howard
Mr Kevin Howard submitted a question regarding Changing Places Toilet Blocks and Mr
Howard asked:
Question
Has Council submitted an application for the current round of Victorian State Government
funding for Changing places toilet blocks and if so for which locations in Bayside?
Response from the CEO
The current Changing Places funding round is open for grants of up to $180,000 for the
construction of a Changing Places facility in their local community and at popular tourism
destinations. The funding round opened on 19 July 2022 and closes on 2 September 2022 and
Council is currently preparing its application.
3. Mr Kevin Howard
Mr Kevin Howard submitted a further question. The question is in relation to the
undergrounding of powerlines and Mr Howard asked:
Question
My question relates to the Undergrounding Powerline policy.
a) Given that some streets in Brighton such as Mulgoa St, Winmarleigh Close and
Church St have already had their powerlines put underground after the streets were
first constructed, why then do we need a new policy to facilitate this in the future?
b) Who pays for the pruning of nature strip trees throughout Bayside which are beneath
powerlines
Response from the CEO
a) The Draft Policy has been developed to provide options to support the
undergrounding of powerlines in areas where these works have not yet been
undertaken. The intent of the policy is to replicate the benefits achieved in the streets
in Brighton referenced. There are few locations in Bayside where the undergrounding
of power lines has occurred and given the increased community interest, the policy
seeks to provide a clear framework for how Council can prioritise and support these
works.
b) Council pays for pruning nature strip trees beneath powerlines in accordance with
Energy Safe Victoria requirements and the Electric Line Clearance Regulations 2020.
These works are carried out by Council’s contractor.
Page No. 8

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
4. Mr Manfred Keller
Mr Manfred Keller submitted a question regarding recycling and Mr Keller asked:
Question
I understand that Monash provides a free recycling option for styrene.
When will this be provided by Bayside given the recent reduction of the Bayside waste bin
collections impacting your citizens and our overall crises with our garbage?
Response from the CEO
The Bayside Waste and Recycling Centre at 144 Talinga Road, Cheltenham is leased by
Council to a commercial provider who is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the
facility, including the pricing structure and what materials are accepted.
Council is currently conducting an Expression of Interest for the future use of the facility
following the expiration of the current lease in August 2023. A focus of this EOI process is
ensuring improvements to the site and increasing resource recovery options for the
community.
7. Petitions to Council
There were no petitions submitted to the meeting.
Page No. 9

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
8. Minutes of Advisory Committees
8.1 MINUTES OF THE BAYSIDE ARTS AND GALLERY ADVISORY
COMMITTEE MEETING HELD ON 13 JULY 2022
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/22/238360
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
That Council:
1. notes the minutes of the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee meeting held
on 13 July 2022
2. adopts the following the recommendations form the Bayside Arts and Gallery
Advisory Committee:
Item 6.3 – Future Public Art Sites Report
That the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee recommends to Council:
1. the following locations as the sites for future public artworks:
• Cheltenham Park
• Billilla grounds
2. two Committee members, Mr Brian Long and Ms Lyn Stephens be appointed to
the Expression of Interest and selective tender procurement process panel for
the next public art commission to commence in 2023.
3. consider a report at the next meeting on a proposed light box art installation.
Item 6.5 – Bayside Arts and Heritage Collection Acquisition Report Part 2
That the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee recommends Council:
1. gratefully accepts the proposed donation made by Andrew Gaynor of ‘Brighton
Beach’ circa 1885 by A.H.Fullwood
2. acknowledges the donation as per Council approved process for donated works
3. acquires ’Sphinx Prior’ 2017–2021 by Adrian Spurr
4. acquires ‘Pipi’ 1998 by Ellen José.
Item 6.6 – Bayside Arts and Heritage Collection Acquisition Report Part 3
That the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee recommends that Council
formally accession the following items into the Bayside Council Art and Heritage
Collection:
1. A material bound album containing four photographs related to the election of
the Member for the District of Brighton in April 1928.
Page No. 10

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
2. A framed gelatin silver photograph of the Official opening of the Black Rock to
Beaumaris Tramway on 1 September 1926.
3. A framed gelatin silver photograph of Councillors and Officers of the Councillors
and Officers of the first City of Sandringham Council taken outside the Council
Chambers 21 March 1923.
4. A framed compilation of 8 gelatin silver photographs documenting the official
opening of the Sandringham to Black Rock Electric Street Railway on 10 March
1919.
5. An unframed, mounted gelatin silver photograph of the Ceremony of Turning the
First Sod at Martin Street Subway, Gardenvale Station on 16 December 1927.
6. A framed compilation of 11 gelatin silver photographs documenting the unveiling
ceremony of the statue of Sir Thomas Bent and drinking fountain in memory of
the late Mrs Bent, on the Nepean Highway, Brighton.
7. A formal portrait of Cr. W.P. Francis, standing, wearing mayoral robes with fur
trims, lace cuffs, jabot and white shirt underneath.
CARRIED
Page No. 11

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
8.2 RECORDS OF MEETINGS HELD UNDER THE AUSPICES OF COUNCIL
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/22/31 – Doc No: DOC/22/240867
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council notes the records of meeting/s held under the auspices of Council as required
by the Local Government Act 2020 and Council’s Governance Rules:
• 26 July 2022 Strategic Issues Discussion
• 2 August 2022 Councillor Briefing.
CARRIED
Page No. 12

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
9. Reports by Special Committees
There were no reports by Special Committees submitted to the meeting.
10. Reports by the Organisation
REQUESTS TO BE HEARD:
Item 10.3 For (F)
Review of Planning and Amenity Committee Delegations Against (A)
Written Statements
1. Mr Derek Screen (on behalf of Pennydale Residents (A)
Action Group (Inc))
Page No. 13

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
10.1 FUTURE PROVISION OF A SECURE DOG PARK
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
File No: PSF/22/27 – Doc No: DOC/22/238337
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor)
That Council:
1. notes the process to be undertaken to consider additional secured dog off-leash
areas throughout the municipality, including engagement with the Bayside Dog
Alliance
2. considers the allocation of $40,000 as part of the 2023–24 budget process to:
a) investigate suitable secure dog off leash park locations across the
municipality
b) undertake community consultation on any proposed locations
c) provide concept design ideas that will enhance users’ experiences of secure
dog off leash parks
3. refers any potential improvements to fencing at dog off-leash reserves to the 2023–
24 budget process.
CARRIED
Page No. 14

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
10.2 PROPOSED BILLILLA ADVISORY COMMITTEE CHARTER
Community and Customer Experience - Customer, Libraries and Cultural Services
File No: PSF/22/38 – Doc No: DOC/22/241069
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Castelli
That Council
1. adopts the Billilla Advisory Committee Charter set out in Attachment 1
2. commences the process of recruiting and appointing members to the Billilla Advisory
Committee
3. appoints the Mayor Cr del Porto (as Chair) and Deputy Mayor Cr El Mouallem (as Deputy
Chair) as Council’s representatives to the Billilla Advisory Committee
4. receives a further report at a future Council meeting recommending membership to and
formation of the Advisory Committee.
CARRIED
Page No. 15

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
10.3 REVIEW OF PLANNING AND AMENITY COMMITTEE DELEGATIONS
City Planning and Amenity - Development Services
File No: PSF/22/36 – Doc No: DOC/22/231581
It is recorded that Mr Derek Screen (on behalf of Pennydale Residents Action Group (Inc))
submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Castelli
That Council approves changes to Officer delegations as follows:
1. Section 61 (1)(a), (b) and (c) of the Planning and Environment Act 1987, the power to
make a decision on a planning permit application cannot be exercised in relation to:
• any application that is ‘called in’ by a Councillor
• an application where three or more objections have been received and Council
officers are recommending that a Notice of Decision to Grant a Permit be issued
• where an application exceeds the discretionary height controls within a Major Activity
Centre and Council officers are recommending that a planning permit or Notice of
Decision to Grant a Permit be issued
• an application for the removal of three or more trees on private land protected by the
Vegetation Protection Overlay (VPO) and where Council officers are recommending
that a planning permit or a notice of decision to grant a permit be issued (a tree that
has been confirmed by Council’s Arborist as dead is not counted in this trigger)
2. Section 69 (2)(2) of the Planning and Environment Act 1987, the power to make a
decision on a planning permit application cannot be exercised:
• where a third or more application is received for an extension of time and Council
officers are recommending that the application be approved.
3. Part 3 - Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (VCAT).
Council officers are provided the following delegation:
Where Council is a party to a proceeding at VCAT, the Director (DCPA), Department
Manager (MDS), Statutory Planning Coordinator (SPC) and Principal Statutory Planner
(PSP) have the power to make a decision relating to the conduct of a proceeding including
a decision to settle the proceeding (i.e. agree to a consent order) where there is three or
less original objectors. The DCPA, MDS, SPC and PSP do not have the power to make a
decision if there were four or more original objections and Council’s position has changed.’
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto (Mayor), Sonia Castelli and Hanna El
Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) (3)
AGAINST: Crs Clarke Martin, Jo Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona Stitfold and
Laurence Evans OAM (4)
LOST
Page No. 16

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr Castelli
That Council approves changes to Officer delegations as follows:
1. Section 61 (1)(a), (b) and (c) of the Planning and Environment Act 1987, the power
to make a decision on a planning permit application cannot be exercised in relation
to:
• any application that is ‘called in’ by a Councillor
• an application where three or more objections have been received and Council
officers are recommending that a Notice of Decision to Grant a Permit be issued
• where an application exceeds the discretionary height controls within a Major
Activity Centre and Council officers are recommending that a planning permit or
Notice of Decision to Grant a Permit be issued
2. Section 69 (2)(2) of the Planning and Environment Act 1987, the power to make a
decision on a planning permit application cannot be exercised:
• where a third or more application is received for an extension of time and Council
officers are recommending that the application be approved
3. Part 3 - Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (VCAT).
Council officers are provided the following delegation:
Where Council is a party to a proceeding at VCAT, the Director (DCPA), Department
Manager (MDS), Statutory Planning Coordinator (SPC) and Principal Statutory Planner
(PSP) have the power to make a decision relating to the conduct of a proceeding including
a decision to settle the proceeding (i.e. agree to a consent order) where there is three or
less original objectors. The DCPA, MDS, SPC and PSP do not have the power to make a
decision if there were four or more original objections and Council’s position has changed.’
CARRIED
Page No. 17

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
10.4 PROPOSED BICYCLE ROUTE CONNECTING CHELTENHAM AND
SANDRINGHAM
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/22/26 – Doc No: DOC/22/238558
Moved: Cr Evans OAM Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. notes the report and options for delivering an east-west bicycle route connecting
Cheltenham and Sandringham
2. undertakes community engagement on stage one of the proposed bicycle route
connecting Cheltenham and Sandringham
3. receives a report at a future Council Meeting on the community engagement
findings, alongside the final design of stage one of the proposed cycling route
connecting Cheltenham and Sandringham.
CARRIED
Page No. 18

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
10.5 BAYSIDE SPORTSGROUND PAVILION UTILISATION PROPOSAL
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
File No: PSF/22/27 – Doc No: DOC/22/219275
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council:
1. adopts the proposed sportsground pavilion booking model for optimising community
pavilion access, whereby Council facilitates community bookings of shared multi-
purpose spaces in line with existing Community Hall Hire procedures
2. applies the fees & charges rates as per below:
Multi-purpose Community
room (per hour) discounted rate
2022–23 (75%)
Monday to Friday
$40p/h $10p/h
(9:00am to 3:00pm)
Public Holidays*
$80p/h $20p/h
(9:00am to 3:00pm)
*Limited availability
$50 (per use) $50* (per use)
Cleaning fee
* Note: no community discount is applied for cleaning fees
3. reviews the fees & charges rates annually.
CARRIED
Page No. 19

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
10.6 ANNUAL COMMUNITY GRANTS ALLOCATION 2022–23
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
File No: PSF/22/27 – Doc No: DOC/22/219169
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council allocates the 2022–23 Annual Community Grants Program as set out in
Attachment 3.
CARRIED
Page No. 20

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
10.7 ELSTERNWICK PARK NATURE RESERVE COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP -
INTERIM UPDATE
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
File No: PSF/22/27 – Doc No: DOC/22/238362
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor)
That Council:
1. receives the substantive report on the appointment of community members and
technical experts to the Elsternwick Park Nature Reserve Committee of
Management at the 20 September 2022 Council Meeting
2. renames the Committee of Management and Terms of Reference of the
Elsternwick Park Nature Reserve to reflect the new name of Yalukit Willam Nature
Reserve
3. lodges the reserve name ‘Yalukit Willam Nature Reserve’ with the Victorian
Registrar of Geographic Names
4. receives a report at or before the March 2023 Council Meeting in relation to the
opportunities for installing feral proof fencing at the Yalukit Willam Nature Reserve
to further support biodiversity outcomes, including an indication of benefits, costs
and implications
5. refers consideration of the feral proof fencing to the Yalukit Willam Nature Reserve
Committee
6. engages with Melbourne Water on the potential for the installation of feral proof
fencing at the Yalukit Willam Nature Reserve
7. extends an invitation to the Melbourne Water Board of Directors to tour the Chain of
Ponds.
CARRIED
Page No. 21

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
10.8 DENDY STREET BEACH EROSION CONTROL - LONG TERM OPTIONS
UPDATE
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/22/27 – Doc No: DOC/22/239347
It is recorded that Cr Castelli declared a General Conflict of Interest in this item given her
partner owns a bathing box at Dendy Street Beach, and accordingly vacated the Chamber
at 8.37 pm prior to any discussion taking place on the matter..
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. notes the update in relation to the long-term options for addressing erosion at Dendy
Street Beach
2. receives a report at the 18 October 2022 Council Meeting on the outcomes of the
additional investigation works and stakeholder consultation.
CARRIED
It is recorded that Cr Castelli was not present in the meeting during debate or when the vote
was taken on the item.
It is recorded that Cr Castelli returned to the meeting at 8.49 pm.
Page No. 22

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
10.9 INTEGRATED TRANSPORT STRATEGY 2018–28 IMPLEMENTATION
PROGRESS
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/22/26 – Doc No: DOC/22/232588
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. notes the Integrated Transport Strategy 2018–28 implementation actions
progressed in 2021–22.
2. receives a report with the updated Integrated Transport Strategy at the August
2023 Council Meeting.
CARRIED
Page No. 23

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
10.10 PROPOSED DISCONTINUANCE AND SALE OF ROAD ADJOINING 8
WOLSELEY STREET AND 11A & 11B WORTHING ROAD, HIGHETT
Corporate Services - Commercial Services
File No: PSF/22/34 – Doc No: DOC/22/228386
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council:
1. in accordance with Section 206 and Clause 3 of Schedule 10 of the Local
Government Act 1989 (the Act) resolves to discontinue the subject road adjoining 8
Wolseley Street; and 11A & 11B Worthing Road, Highett, and sell the subject road
to the adjoining owners of 8 Wolseley Street; and 11A & 11B Worthing Road, Highett
as outlined in Attachment 2, for the combined sum of $32,000 plus GST
2. authorises the Director Corporate Services to undertake the necessary procedural
steps to discontinue and sell the subject road via private treaty and retain all
easements on title as required in favour of the appropriate Authority
3. directs a public notice to be published in the Victoria Government Gazette.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.10 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Page No. 24

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
10.11 CONTRACT CON/20/122 CONSTRUCTION OF FERN STREET
CHILDREN'S CENTRE
Corporate Services - Commercial Services
File No: PSF/22/28 – Doc No: DOC/22/132511
Moved: Cr Evans OAM Seconded: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor)
That Council:
1. awards Contract CON/20/122 Construction of Fern Street Children's Centre to Devco
Project and Construction Management Pty Ltd (ABN 15 007 223 332) for the lump sum
price of $5,934,364.00 (excl. GST) and $6,527,800 (including GST)
2. authorises the Chief Executive Officer to sign all necessary documentation related to
Contract CON/20/122 Construction of Fern Street Children's Centre
3. advises the unsuccessful tenderers accordingly.
CARRIED
Page No. 25

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
10.12 COUNCIL ACTION AWAITING REPORT
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/22/31 – Doc No: DOC/22/240870
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council notes the Council Action Awaiting Report.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.12 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Page No. 26

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
11. Reports by Delegates
1. Association of Bayside Municipalities – Crs Fiona Stitfold and Clarke Martin indicated
that there was no further report since the previous meeting.
2. Metropolitan Transport Forum – The Director Environment, Recreation and
Infrastructure advised that a Forum was held in July. The forum received a presentation
from the City of Melton on the detailed modelling process as part of the planning process
for Melton’s advocacy on major roads projects.
The Forum also conducted a series of Town Hall Strategic Transport Advocacy forums
which was well attended with Government and Opposition speakers attending .
Also, Casey and Darebin councils reported on their transport strategies, projects and
advocacy in their municipalities.
3. Municipal Association of Victoria – The Mayor, Cr Alex del Porto reported that the
MAV will be conducting a Special meeting of the State Council on Friday 16 September
to consider the review of the proposed MAV Rules for adoption. This will be a significant
meeting given the rules have not been reviewed for 3 decades and some of the
recommended changes proposed will improve the governance of the Association.
The MAV will be conducting its annual Conference and Dinner on Thursday 13 October
and would welcome Councillors to attend the annual dinner or conference or both. This
will be followed by the MAV State Council meeting on Friday 14 October.
4. Inner South Metropolitan Mayors’ Forum – The CEO advised the meeting that the
group has met on several occasions to discuss a joint advocacy position for the up-
coming State Election. The focus of the advocacy program is based on four core areas:
Social and Affordable Housing
Maternal Child Health Funding
Open Space Recreation funding
Planning related matters.
5. South East Councils Climate Change Alliance – Crs Clarke Martin and Fiona Stitfold
indicated that there was nothing further to report on since the previous meeting.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Evans
That the Reports by Delegates be received and noted.
CARRIED
Page No. 27

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
12. Urgent Business
There were no items of urgent business submitted to the meeting.
13. Notices of Motion
There were no notices of motion submitted to the meeting.
Page No. 28

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 16 August 2022
14. Confidential Business
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Castelli
That pursuant to Section 66(2)(a) of the Local Government Act 2020 (the Act), the
Council resolves that so much of this meeting be closed to members of the public, as it
involves Council consideration of matters coming within some or all of the following
categories listed in Section 3(1) (confidential information) of such Act:
(a) Council business information
(b) security information
(c) land use planning information
(d) law enforcement information
(e) legal privileged information
(f) personal information
(g) private commercial information, being information provided by a business,
commercial or financial undertaking that—
(i) relates to trade secrets; or
(ii) if released, would unreasonably expose the business, commercial or financial
undertaking to disadvantage;
(h) confidential meeting information
(i) internal arbitration information
(j) Councillor Conduct Panel confidential information
(k) information prescribed by the regulations to be confidential information for the
purposes of this definition
(l) information that was confidential information for the purposes of section 77 of the
Local Government Act 1989.
CARRIED
Table of Contents
14.1 MINUTES OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S EMPLOYMENT MATTERS
ADVISORY COMMITTEE HELD ON 1 AUGUST 2022
(LGA 2020 Section 3(1)(f) personal information, being information which if released
would result in the unreasonable disclosure of information about any person or their
personal affairs.)
It is recorded that the public gallery was vacated to enable Council to consider the above
listed items in Confidential Business.
Following consideration of Confidential Business, the Mayor declared the meeting closed at
9.13pm.
Page No. 29

