Council
Meeting
held remotely and
live-streamed via
Council’s website
Tuesday
17 August 2021
at 6:30pm
Minutes

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
PRESENT:
Chair: Cr Laurence Evans OAM (Mayor)
Councillors: Cr Sonia Castelli (Deputy Mayor)
Cr Alex del Porto
Cr Hanna El Mouallem
Cr Clarke Martin
Cr Jo Samuel-King MBBS
Cr Fiona Stitfold
Officers: Mick Cummins – Chief Executive Officer
Jill Colson – Director Corporate Services
Bryce Craggs – Director Community and Customer Experience
Matthew Cripps – Director City Planning and Amenity
Adam McSwain – Director Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure
Juliana Aya – Acting Manager Transport and Sustainability
Terry Callant – Manager Governance and Corporate Reporting
Bill Shanahan – Manager Finance
Damien Van Trier – Manager Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
Tom Vercoe – Acting Manager Urban Strategy
Robert Lamb – Governance Officer
Page No. 2

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
Table of Contents
1. Prayer
2. Acknowledgement of Original Inhabitants
3. Apologies
4. Disclosure of any Conflict of Interest of any Councillor
5. Adoption and Confirmation of the minutes of previous meeting
6. Public Question Time
7. Petitions to Council
8. Minutes of Advisory Committees
8.1 Records of meetings held under the auspices of Council .......... 11
8.2 Minutes of the Audit and Risk Committee meeting held on 24 May
2021 .......................................................................................... 12
8.3 Minutes of the Disability Access and Inclusion Advisory Committee
meeting held on 26 July 2021 .................................................... 13
8.4 Minutes of the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee
meeting held on 28 July 2021 .................................................... 14
9. Reports by Special Committees
10. Reports by the Organisation
10.1 Draft Bayside Urban Forest Strategy ......................................... 17
10.2 Outcomes of the avoidable single-use plastics program ........... 18
10.3 Outcomes of community engagement - Wilson Recreation
Reserve - Brighton Grammar Proposal ..................................... 20
10.4 Financial Hardship Policy .......................................................... 22
10.5 Suburban Rail Loop Project, Stage 1, Advocacy position ......... 23
10.6 New Street Brighton Public Housing Renewal Project -
Submission to Homes Victoria ................................................... 24
10.7 Potential Multi-Deck Commuter Car Park in Service Street,
Hampton .................................................................................... 25
10.8 Integrated Transport Strategy 2018 - Implementation Progress
During 2020–21 ......................................................................... 27
10.9 Brighton Secondary College Synthetic Hockey Facility -
Management Update ................................................................. 28
Page No. 3

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
10.10 Uluru Statement from the Heart ................................................. 29
10.11 Amendment C175bays Sandringham Golf Course .................... 30
10.12 Response to petition and joint letter - Melrose Street Sandringham
spacelets ................................................................................... 31
10.13 Bayside Drainage Development Contributions Plan Review ..... 32
10.14 Appointment of Members to the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory
Committee ................................................................................. 33
10.15 Revised Instrument of Delegation - Planning and Amenity
Delegated Committee ................................................................ 34
10.16 Annual Community Grants 2021–22 ......................................... 35
10.17 Lease of One Telecommunication Site to Telstra ...................... 36
10.18 Council Action Awaiting Report ................................................. 37
11. Reports by Delegates
12. Urgent Business
13. Notices of Motion
14. Confidential Business
14.1 Minutes of the Chief Executive Officer's Employment Matters
Committee held on 2 August 2021 ............................................ 40
Page No. 4

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
The Mayor declared the Council Meeting open at 6:30pm and noted that the meeting was
being held remotely via electronic media. The meeting was recorded and streamed live on the
internet.
The Mayor invited Cr Castelli to read the prayer.
1. Prayer
Cr Castelli read the prayer at the commencement of the meeting.
O God
Bless this City, Bayside,
Give us courage, strength and wisdom,
So that our deliberations,
May be for the good of all,
Amen
2. Acknowledgement of Original Inhabitants
The Mayor invited Cr del Porto to read the acknowledgement of the original inhabitants of
this land.
 We acknowledge that the original inhabitants of this land that we call Bayside
were the Boon Wurrung people of the Kulin nation.
 They loved this land, they cared for it and considered themselves to be part of it.
 We acknowledge that we have a responsibility to nurture the land, and sustain it
for future generations.
3. Apologies
There were no apologies submitted to the meeting.
4. Disclosure of any Conflict of Interest of any Councillor
There were no conflicts of interest submitted to the meeting.
Page No. 5

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
Procedural Motion
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Castelli
That Council:
1. considers the meeting to be adjourned for 10 minutes from the commencement of any
technical problem which prevents Council from livestreaming the meeting
2. adjourns the meeting to be reconvened on Wednesday 18 August 2021 at 6:30pm via
livestreaming on Council’s website, in the event livestreaming cannot be resumed
within 30 minutes from the commencement of the technical problem which prevents
livestreaming on Council’s website.
CARRIED
5. Adoption and Confirmation of the minutes of previous meeting
5.1 Confirmation of the Minutes of the Ordinary meeting of Bayside City Council held on
20 July 2021.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
That the minutes of the Ordinary meeting of Bayside City Council held on 20 July 2021, as
previously circulated, be confirmed as an accurate record of proceedings.
CARRIED
6. Public Question Time
In accordance with Section 64 of Council’s Governance Local Law No 1, 8 public questions
were submitted to the Meeting. In accordance with Section 64 part 15 where a questioner is
not present in the Chamber at the time of Public Question Time, the question and response
will not be read out at the meeting or recorded in the minutes.
1. Ms Elinor Poci
Ms Elinor Poci submitted a question regarding swimming facilities in Bayside, and Ms Poci
asked:
Question
Part 1 - I am concerned that new owners BlueFit at tulip st are not providing the requisite 2
lanes to the public. Whilst COVID may apply at the moment I want to be assured
they will not ignore lap swimmers in the future as it’s difficult to swim there anyway
with schools and lessons.
Part 2 Is there any proposal for the future of our only bayside pool? Swimmers are
desperate for more availability in Bayside. Is there any plan for a new pool in the
future budget?
Page No. 6

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
Response from the CEO
Part 1 Covid regulations will periodically limit patron numbers in swimming pools. The lease
requires the tenant to provide lanes for lap swimming. As the tenant for the swimming
Pool at the Sandringham Family Leisure Centre, Bluefit has assured Council that it
will work to address any concerns swimming patrons have during this difficult period.
All residents with questions regarding lane availability should access the Bluefit
customer services enquiry portal on its website.
Part 2 Council is developing long-term future options for the Sandringham Family Leisure
Centre including the provision of aquatic facilities. Planning for the development of a
warm water facility in Bayside is also underway with Council due to receive more
detailed analysis at the October 2021 Council meeting.
2. Mrs Mary Larsen
Mrs Mary Larsen submitted a question regarding Council’s heritage study, and Mrs Larsen
asked:
Question
With reference to the current Mid-Century Modern heritage study - a member of a local lobby
group was a passenger in a car parked outside my home recently. How can Council guarantee
to me and other homeowners that no members of local lobby groups/historical groups or
Council Staff Members are accompanying heritage consultations on site visits.
Response from the CEO
Council’s heritage consultant is an independent consultancy firm engaged to undertake site
visits in the public realm. They have not undertaken these site visits with anyone that is not
employed by their firm.
Undertaking site visits is within the roles and responsibilities of Council officers and it is
standard practice on many Council projects (particularly planning matters) for officers to
undertake site visits accompanied by independent experts.
3. Mrs Erin Hetrel
Mrs Erin Hetrel submitted a question regarding Council’s heritage study, and Mrs Hetrel asked:
Question
Why is my home being listed as heritage without my consent?
Response from the CEO
Council resolved at its Ordinary Meeting on 23 June 2020 to prioritise the commencement of
a Mid-Century Modern Heritage Study.
Following this, Council appointed a heritage consultant to undertake assessment of residential
places in Bayside and to identify places of local heritage significance within the Draft Mid-
Century Modern Heritage Study.
To date, Council and its consultant has not finalised its assessment of residential places and
therefore is yet to make any recommendation as to what properties should be considered for
inclusion in the Heritage Overlay.
Once a draft Study has been finalised and a list of properties to be included has been
completed, Council will be consulting with all affected property owners.
Page No. 7

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
4. Mr Edward Haddad
Mr Edward Haddad submitted a question regarding fencing at Brighton Golf Course, and Mr
Haddad asked:
Question
Part 1 Can council please clarify whose responsibility it is to provide adequate fencing
to the Brighton golf course.
Part 2 Will the council take action and either budget for increased fencing or make
adequate fencing heights a requirement under the lease terms?
Response from the CEO
Part 1 The tenant is responsible for managing the escape of golf balls from the Golf
Course. Should additional netting or other mechanisms be required, under the
lease this would be the responsibility of the tenant.
Part 2 Council will continue to work with the tenant to consider where improvements
to fencing, screening or planting could be made to reduce the risk of stray golf
balls.
5. Dr Zena Burgess
Dr Zena Burges submitted a question regarding Council’s heritage study, and Dr Burgess
asked:
Question
re Heritage overlay
Please describe in exact detail what consultation means and how specifically how the will of
home owners will be taken into account.
Response from the CEO
Council is proposing to undertake two stages of consultation to inform the final Mid-Century
Modern Heritage Study and the planning scheme amendment process to include
recommended properties within the Heritage Overlay of the Bayside Planning Scheme.
Once the draft Study has been finalised, it is envisaged that Council will engage with affected
property owners regarding the findings for their property. This will also provide an opportunity
for property owners to understand the process and how they can best challenge or question
the findings.
Following this, the Study will be presented to Council for a decision. It is envisaged that Council
will then commence a planning scheme amendment to include the identified properties within
the Heritage Overlay, which provides for a second public consultation process.
Through the planning scheme amendment process, all affected property owners and any other
interested parties will be provided an opportunity to make submissions regarding the
amendment, including the opportunity to engage any required expert evidence. If submissions
are received, Council may request that an Independent Planning Panel be appointed to hear
submissions and evidence from both Council and any submitters, for the Panel to consider the
evidence and provide recommendations to Council as to how to best proceed with the
amendment.
Page No. 8

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
The Minister for Planning makes the final decision whether to approve or refuse the
amendment to introduce the Heritage Overlay to properties within the Bayside Planning
Scheme.
6. Dr Zena Burgess
Dr Zena Burgess submitted a further question regarding Council’s heritage study, and Dr
Burgess asked:
Question
re Heritage Overlay
if Bayside council want control over mid century homes in the area why not purchase a select
number and pay market rates. Why is this terrible process being pursued to destroy the value
of homes and destroy the future of elderly residents to pay for their future care. your elected
role is to advocate for residents not against us !
Response from the CEO
Council has a responsibility for heritage preservation, consistent with the objective located at
Section 4(1)(d) of the Planning and Environment Act 1987 to “conserve and enhance those
buildings, areas or other places which are of scientific, aesthetic, architectural or historical
interest, or otherwise of special cultural value”.
This objective relates to all local governments across Victoria. It is Council’s responsibility to
administer the Bayside Planning Scheme which includes applying planning controls to guide
the orderly use and development of land within the municipality. This includes the application
of the Heritage Overlay to properties identified as being of heritage significance.
7. Mr Kevin Howard
Mr Kevin Howard submitted a question regarding Wilson Recreation Reserve, and Mr Howard
asked:
Question
The recent Wilson Rec Reserve public consultation CLOSED at midnight on 14th July. Eight
days after it had closed, the public consultation was RE-OPENED on 22nd July until 1st
August.
Part 1 Of the community responses in favour of the BGS proposal, what proportion was
received in the two separate consultation periods?
Part 2 Do any Council officers who have been involved in this project have any direct or
INDIRECT interest in this matter (including family members or relatives who attend
BGS)?
Response from the CEO
Part 1 There is significant work to compile this data and to ensure accuracy a written
response will be provided to the submitter in due course.
Part 2 No Council officer involved in this project has a direct or indirect interest in this matter.
Page No. 9

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
8. Mr Kevin Howard
Mr Kevin Howard submitted a further question regarding the use of public reserves and
sportsgrounds in Bayside by private schools, and Mr Howard asked:
Question
This question is about use of public reserves and sportsgrounds in Bayside by private schools.
Part 1 Is any single reserve or sportsground booked for use by a private school more than
the combined hours that Wilson Recreation Reserve is booked by Brighton Grammar
School?
Part 2 Please detail the summer and winter usage/bookings of Bayside City Council owned
public reserves and sportsgrounds by PRIVATE schools in 2019 and 2020
Response from the CEO
Part 1 & 2. There is significant work to compile this data and to ensure accuracy, a written
response will be provided to the submitter in due course.
7. Petitions to Council
There were no petitions submitted to the meeting.
Page No. 10

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
8. Minutes of Advisory Committees
8.1 RECORDS OF MEETINGS HELD UNDER THE AUSPICES OF COUNCIL
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/244123
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor)
That Council notes the records of meetings held under the auspices of Council as required
by the Local Government Act 2020 and Council’s Governance Rules:
• 27 July 2021 Meeting with Member for Brighton, James Newbury MP
• 27 July 2021 Strategic Issues Discussion
• 3 August 2021 Site Visit
• 3 August 2021 Councillor Briefing.
CARRIED
Page No. 11

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
8.2 MINUTES OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING HELD ON
24 MAY 2021
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/179831
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council
1. notes the minutes of the Audit and Risk Committee meeting held on 24 May 2021
(contained in Confidential Attachment 1)
2. for the purpose of Section 54 (4)(b) of the Local Government Act 2020, notes the
results of the Audit and Risk Committee annual self-assessment (contained in
Attachment 2).
CARRIED
Page No. 12

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
8.3 MINUTES OF THE DISABILITY ACCESS AND INCLUSION ADVISORY
COMMITTEE MEETING HELD ON 26 JULY 2021
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/233854
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr El Mouallem
That Council notes the minutes of the Disability Access and Inclusion Advisory Committee
meeting held on 26 July 2021.
CARRIED
Page No. 13

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
8.4 MINUTES OF THE BAYSIDE ARTS AND GALLERY ADVISORY
COMMITTEE MEETING HELD ON 28 JULY 2021
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/244271
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor)
That Council:
1. notes the minutes of the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee meeting held
on 28 July 2021
2. adopts the recommendations of the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee in
relation to the following matter:
Item 6.3 – Future mural projects in Bayside
That the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee:
1. recommends Council commission murals on 2 of the following properties on the
condition that permission is granted by the property owners and an MOU is
signed by both Council and property owner; and
2. endorses the following proposed sites in order of preference and priority:
1st Preference - 123 Church Street North Brighton
2nd Preference - 144 Martin Street Brighton
3rd Preference - 141 Martin Street Brighton
4th Preference - 126 Martin Street Brighton
Item 6.4 – Billilla Future Use and Artists Studio Program
That the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee recommends that Council:
1. continues to operate the Billilla Artists Studio Program in 2022 with a call for
submissions to be promoted in September 2021 with selected artists to be
approved by the Arts Committee at the 27 October 2021 Meeting
2. provides appropriate consideration to the 2050 Community Vision Theme:
Nurturing Creativity when reviewing the options for future use of Billilla.
CARRIED
Page No. 14

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
9. Reports by Special Committees
There we no Reports by Special Committees submitted to the meeting.
10. Reports by the Organisation
REQUESTS TO BE HEARD:
The Mayor noted that temporary changes to the Council meeting procedures are in place with
regard to Chapter 2, Division 10 of Council’s Governance Rules (Individual Presentations),
whereby:
• in place of speaking in-person at a Council / Committee meeting, members of the
public may submit a written statement (maximum of four (4) A4 single pages) which
must be sent electronically, or delivered to Council's Corporate Centre, by 9:00am on
the day of the meeting
• written statements received after 9:00am on the day of the meeting will not be
considered by the meeting
• a person may only make a written statement to an Ordinary Meeting/Special
Committee Meeting in relation to an item listed in the agenda under Reports by the
Organisation, and even then not if the item is in the nature of a report summarising a
decision already made by another body; or if the report relates to a Tender Report
relating to the awarding of a contract
• in accordance with Chapter 2, Section 83(1) of Council’s Governance Rules 2020, any
statement which is derogatory, or defamatory of any Councillor, member of Council
staff, or member of the community may not be accepted
• where a person has formally made a written statement in relation to an item on the
agenda, the statement will be provided to all councillors in advance of the meeting
• written statements are not confidential and, following the closure for receipt of
statements, will be published (including first and last names only) on Council’s website
as an attachment to the Agenda for the relevant meeting
• written statements will not be read out at the meeting; however, the Chairperson will
advise the meeting of the number of statements received to each item.
The following individuals submitted written statements to the meeting:
Item 10.1 Draft Bayside Urban Forest Strategy
1. Ms Heather Knowles
2. Mr George Leighfield
3. Ms Caroline Lawton
4. Ms Jo Pritchard (on behalf of Beaumaris Modern)
5. Ms Annie Price, Mr Jamie Paterson, and Miss Dottie Paterson
6. Mr Derek Screen (on behalf of Pennydale Residents Action Group Inc)
7. Mr Chris Sutton
Page No. 15

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
Item 10.3 Outcomes of community engagement - Wilson Recreation Reserve -
Brighton Grammar Proposal
1. Mr Jeff Naylor
2. Mrs Cathy Henderson
3. Ms Jen Bishop
4. Ms Katrina Fraser & Brett Goodrich
5. Ms Glenys Fraser & Mr Ian Pascarl
6. Mr Basil Tambanis
7. Mr Kevin Howard
8. Ms Pauline Reynolds
9. Miss Jenelle McKenzie
10. Miss Dianne Anderson
Item 10.6 New Street Brighton Public Housing Renewal Project - Submission to
Homes Victoria
1. Mr Viraj Perera (on behalf of Homes Victoria)
Item 10.7 Potential Multi-Deck Commuter Car Park in Service Street, Hampton
1. Mr George Leighfield
2. Ms Pauline Reynolds
Item 10.8 Integrated Transport Strategy 2018 - Implementation Progress During
2020–21
1. Mr Fraser Gibson
Item 10.10 Uluru Statement from the Heart
1. Ms Pauline Reynolds
Item 10.12 Response to petition and joint letter - Melrose Street Sandringham
spacelets
1. Mr Erik Purcell
2. Mrs Vicki Degrenis, Mr Ilias Degrenis & Mr Dimitri Degrenis
Page No. 16

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
10.1 DRAFT BAYSIDE URBAN FOREST STRATEGY
City Planning and Amenity -
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/243239
It is recorded that Ms Heather Knowles, Mr George Leighfield, Ms Caroline Lawton, Ms Jo
Pritchard (on behalf of Beaumaris Modern), Ms Annie Price, Mr Jamie Paterson, & Miss
Dottie Paterson, Mr Derek Screen (on behalf of Pennydale Residents Action Group Inc),
and Mr Chris Sutton each submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. endorses the draft Urban Forest Strategy (UFS) for the purpose of community
engagement, subject to the following modifications:
a. that our vision wording change from “habitat for biodiversity” to “habitat for
biodiversity with a focus on the locally endangered, native species”
b. add an action to Theme 1 to read “Undertake the strategic justification to
amend the current Vegetation Protection Overlay in Beaumaris and Black Rock
to strengthen protection of Native Vegetation and non-native species of
existing canopy trees”
2. considers:
a. doubling the tree canopy and indigenous vegetation within Bayside by 2040
(32% target) with an intermediate tree canopy target of 25% by 2030
b. doubling the inland areas set aside for conservation by 2025
c. engaging the expertise of an ecologist or equivalent to maximise the
biodiversity gains to be achieved through the UFS recommendations and
actions, including but not limited to:
i. the landscape guidelines review which will have an emphasis on habitat
provisions for native, locally endangered species
d. the role of and opportunity for pocket parks, microforests and habitat corridors,
especially in the MACs and areas experiencing high urban density
3. develops a timeline for implementation of the UFS that includes:
a. on the ground work, including tree planting in parks and reserves to begin in July
2022
b. the strengthening and possible expansion of planning controls by 30 June 2023
c. inland reserves to be declared as conservation areas by 30 June 2023
4. allocates $15,000 from savings in the operating budget to support the expert ecology
advice
5. advocates to the State Government to review the effectiveness of the VicSmart
Planning process for vegetation removal application
6. commences a community engagement process on the draft Urban Forest Strategy for
a minimum of 5 weeks.
CARRIED
Page No. 17

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
10.2 OUTCOMES OF THE AVOIDABLE SINGLE-USE PLASTICS PROGRAM
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Sustainability and Transport
File No: PSF/21/36 – Doc No: DOC/21/241474
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
That Council implements the following actions for all Council-owned properties over the
next 18 months in the lead up to the Victorian state government single-use plastics ban in
February 2023:
1. Source separation infrastructure
All sporting clubs and community centres to be equipped with quality internal waste
infrastructure to support correct source separation.
2. Organics recycling
All organisations leasing Council land to be encouraged to introduce a third waste
stream for organics recycling to reduce food waste from landfill and allow for
compostability of alternative packaging in the long-term.
Investigate opportunities to support businesses to introduce a third waste stream for
organics recycling to reduce food waste from landfill across the 21/22 and 22/23
financial year
3. Replace avoidable single-use plastics
Avoidable single-use plastic items to be removed altogether and replaced by a
reusable or, at best, compostable/recyclable alternative. These items include:
• Plastic drinking straws
Plastic straws to be eliminated entirely and be replaced with
paper/compostable alternative. Additionally, they should only be provided to
patrons upon request as opposed to the public having access to them.
• Take-away serving-ware
Take-away serving-ware to be replaced with compostable alternatives and only
provided to patrons when needed.
• Plastic/polystyrene takeaway packaging
Plastic/polystyrene takeaway packaging to be replaced with compostable
alternatives.
• Individual sachets (soy sauce, tomato sauce, BBQ sauce, honey, etc.)
Individual sachets to be eliminated entirely and be replaced with larger sauce
bottles and reusable or compostable ramekins for business and/or public use.
• Coffee cups
Where possible, reusable cups to be encouraged, and all single-use cups to be
replaced with a compostable alternative that have a polylactic acid (PLA)
lining.
• Soft drinks
Replace plastic bottled soft drinks with aluminium can or glass bottle
alternatives.
Page No. 18

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
4. Water bottles
Council venues (Corporate Centre, Libraries, Gallery and Council Chamber) to cease
all sale, provision, or distribution of bottled water. Alternatively, free access to water
is to be provided.
Sporting clubs, vendors at festivals and others participating in Council events or in
events at Council sites would be permitted to continue bottled water sale; however,
will be required to consider and promote reusable options (e.g. providing jugs and
reusable cups for patron usage, promotion/supply of refillable drinking bottles, etc.).
5. Drinking fountains/water bubblers
All sporting club pavilions to be equipped with a drinking fountain within proximity of
the building.
6. Compatibility of compostable items
Single-use alternative products such as compostable packaging, to be compatible
with the contracted waste processor to ensure the recovery of these products as
opposed to the landfilling of them.
7. Educational resources
Develop an interactive webpage with downloadable resources for each of the three
Council facility categories: community centres, sporting clubs, and food vendors.
Resources include downloadable signage on:
• what goes in what bin
• encouraging BYO coffee cup and water bottle
• why we’ve gone plastic free
• information on what constitutes ‘compostable’ and to be weary of greenwashing
when selecting alternatives
• list of plastics to be eliminated
• relevant templates.
8. Plastic Free Policy
Develop a plastic free policy as a guiding document for organisations to work towards
in tandem with Council’s assistance and resources.
LOST
Moved: Cr El Mouallem Seconded: Cr del Porto
That this matter be deferred for 12 months given the current impacts of COVID-19 on
businesses in the community.
LOST
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr Martin
That this matter be deferred for one month for further consideration with particular emphasis
on point two of the previous motion.
CARRIED
Page No. 19

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
10.3 OUTCOMES OF COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT - WILSON RECREATION
RESERVE - BRIGHTON GRAMMAR PROPOSAL
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation & Wellbeing
File No: PSF/21/19 – Doc No: DOC/21/214788
It is recorded that Mr Jeff Naylor, Mrs Cathy Henderson, Ms Jen Bishop, Ms Katrina Fraser
& Brett Goodrich, Ms Glenys Fraser & Mr Ian Pascarl, Mr Basil Tambanis, Mr Kevin
Howard, Ms Pauline Reynolds, Miss Jenelle McKenzie, and Miss Dianne Anderson each
submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr El Mouallem Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
That Council:
1. thanks the community for its feedback concerning the Brighton Grammar School
proposal
2. notes that Brighton Grammar School has withdrawn the proposal to redevelop
Wilson Recreation Reserve, and as such, is no longer seeking a nine-year licence
with Council
3. continues to support Brighton Grammar School’s use of Wilson Recreation Reserve
for school rugby training and matches between 1 April and 30 September (two
training sessions and 1 match per week)
4. discontinues any recess or lunchtime overflow usage by Schools on Wilson
Reserve from the commencement of the 2022 calendar year
5. encourages other local schools to book Wilson Recreation Reserve for the
purposes of school sport
6. provides other local schools with regular bookings of Wilson Recreation Reserve
7. provides access to a toilet facility to be constructed adjacent to the reserve as part
of the redevelopment of the Brighton Recreation Centre
8. supports all schools, including Brighton Grammar, with the important role they play
in the Bayside community and provides access to Council’s sportsgrounds to
support healthy and active sports participation
9. ensures Brighton Cricket Club’s use of Wilson Recreation Reserve through the
summer sportsground allocation process
10. based on the feedback provided, considers park improvements at Wilson
Recreation Reserve, such as: improvement and better maintenance to the playing
surface, addition of seating, drinking fountain, BBQ and an accessible connection
to Bayley House as part of the preparation of future Council budgets
11. facilitates a community connection event at Wilson Recreation Reserve with
residents and relevant stakeholders to plant an indigenous tree and understorey
planting
12. receives a report by no later than 31 December 2022 updating on the
implementation of this Motion with a focus on the park improvements implemented
and the use of the Reserve by Brighton Grammar School and other Bayside
schools.
Page No. 20

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto, Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli (Deputy
Mayor), Hanna El Mouallem, Jo Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona
Stitfold and Laurence Evans OAM (Mayor) (7)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
Page No. 21

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
10.4 FINANCIAL HARDSHIP POLICY
Corporate Services - Finance
File No: PSF/21/24 – Doc No: DOC/21/247000
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr El Mouallem
That Council adopts the Rates Financial Hardship Policy contained in Attachment 1.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto, Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli (Deputy
Mayor), Hanna El Mouallem, Jo Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona
Stitfold and Laurence Evans OAM (Mayor) (7)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
Page No. 22

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
10.5 SUBURBAN RAIL LOOP PROJECT, STAGE 1, ADVOCACY POSITION
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/21/36 – Doc No: DOC/21/244713
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council:
1. adopts the Draft Suburban Rail Loop Project Stage 1 Advocacy Action Plan
contained in Attachment 1 subject to:
• the inclusion of an action seeking the requirement of a detailed assessment
of the climate impact of and mitigation strategies for the proposed project in
the Environmental Effects Statement
• inclusion of the following statement under the heading of ‘Delivering an
integrated transport system’ to read:
“Establish safe and direct connections through the network of open spaces
that support the use of sustainable transport modes between the former
CSIRO Highett Site, the Suburban Rail Loop Cheltenham Station and
Cheltenham Station”
2. seeks community feedback on the Action Plan
3. receives a report following community feedback by no later than the December
2021 Council meeting.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto, Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli (Deputy
Mayor), Hanna El Mouallem, Jo Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona
Stitfold and Laurence Evans OAM (Mayor) (7)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
Page No. 23

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
10.6 NEW STREET BRIGHTON PUBLIC HOUSING RENEWAL PROJECT -
SUBMISSION TO HOMES VICTORIA
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/244297
It is recorded that Mr Viraj Perera (on behalf of Homes Victoria) submitted a written
statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr El Mouallem Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council endorses the officers’ submission to Homes Victoria contained in Attachment
1, subject to the inclusion of:
1. widening of the pedestrian walkway from 5 metres to 8 metres
2. consideration of all available measures to reduce the impact on residential properties
to the north of the site
3. the relocation of the community facility to the south side of the property
4. reduction of buildings B and C by at least one storey and redistribution to Buildings A
and D
5. use of a different roof form to reduce the overall building heights
6. the requirement of indigenous planting along the creek to support the creation of a
habitat corridor
7. the requirement of best practice Environmentally Sustainable Development
outcomes through all aspects of the development
8. the requirement for the location and design of the Brickwood Street vehicle access to
minimise any adverse impact on pedestrian/public safety
9. the Mayor writing to Homes Victoria to advocate the above motion.
CARRIED
Page No. 24

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
10.7 POTENTIAL MULTI-DECK COMMUTER CAR PARK IN SERVICE
STREET, HAMPTON
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/243482
It is recorded that Mr George Leighfield, and Ms Pauline Reynolds each submitted a
written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Stitfold Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
That:
1. given Council has declared a Climate Emergency and the recent release of the Inter-
Governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, the proposal to construct a
car park in Service Street, Hampton not proceed due to the potential impact on
abutting properties and the environmental implications of the construction
2. Council advocates to the State Government for significant improvements to the bus
network and in particular the linkages between railway stations and bus services
3. through the review of the Bayside Parking Strategy, creative ways of addressing
parking are explored.
LOST
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor)
That Council:
1. explores an alternative design for the site, incorporating:
a. two levels of basement parking
b. a maximum building height of two storeys above ground
c. electric charging stations
d. a green roof structure including a community garden and provision for bee
hives
e. no net loss of short-term/visitor parking at the site
2. undertakes a feasibility of the proposed design to further inform costs
3. allocates $60,000 from Council’s Infrastructure Reserve to complete the work
4. advocates to the State Government for significant improvements to the bus network
and in particular the linkages between railway stations and bus services
5. through the review of the Bayside Parking Strategy, creative ways of addressing
parking are explored
6. receives a report at the 21 December 2021 Council Meeting with the outcomes.
Page No. 25

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto, Sonia Castelli (Deputy Mayor), Hanna El
Mouallem and Laurence Evans OAM (Mayor) (4)
AGAINST: Crs Clarke Martin, Jo Samuel-King MBBS and Fiona Stitfold (3)
CARRIED
Page No. 26

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
10.8 INTEGRATED TRANSPORT STRATEGY 2018 - IMPLEMENTATION
PROGRESS DURING 2020–21
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Sustainability & Transport
File No: PSF/21/36 – Doc No: DOC/21/109276
It is recorded that Mr Fraser Gibson submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. notes the Integrated Transport Strategy 2018–2028 implementation actions progressed
in 2020–21 subject to the following amendments:
Page 254 – Replace Action 8 with the following wording:
“Request the consultants undertaking the development of Council’s Parking Strategy to
engage directly with car share providers and brief Council on the outcomes through the
development of this Strategy”
Page 261 – Include additional wording to Action 67 with the following wording:
“Include information to promote these opportunities on Council’s upgraded website and
review the broader opportunity as part of the Car Parking Strategy”
2. receives a report of the implementation actions progressed in 2021–22 from the
Integrated Transport Strategy 2018–2028 in August 2022.
3. receives a report not later than 6 months from this meeting on the implementation and
delivery of the Bayside Planning Scheme Structure Plans actions specifically relating to
pedestrian actions, walkways and connectivity to the residential areas.
CARRIED
Page No. 27

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
10.9 BRIGHTON SECONDARY COLLEGE SYNTHETIC HOCKEY FACILITY -
MANAGEMENT UPDATE
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation & Wellbeing
File No: PSF/21/19 – Doc No: DOC/21/243847
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor)
That Council notes the management arrangements currently in place for the Brighton
Secondary College synthetic hockey facility.
CARRIED
Page No. 28

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
10.10 ULURU STATEMENT FROM THE HEART
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/216635
It is recorded that Ms Pauline Reynolds submitted a written statement in relation to this
item.
Moved: Cr Stitfold Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. supports the Uluru Statement from the Heart which calls on the Australian people
to walk with First Nations in a people’s movement for Voice, Treaty, Truth
2. displays the Uluru Statement from the Heart on Council’s website
3. registers its support for the Uluru Statement from the Heart on the website
https://www.1voiceuluru.org/
4. writes to the Member for the federal electorate of Goldstein calling on the Australian
Government to support Constitutional Recognition for Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander peoples and the key principles of the ‘Uluru Statement from the Heart’
5. submits a motion to the MAV State Council Meeting encouraging all Victorian
councils to support the Uluru Statement from the Heart and to write to their
respective federal member calling on the Australian government to support
Constitutional Recognition for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and the
key principles of the Uluru Statement from the Heart.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto, Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli (Deputy
Mayor), Hanna El Mouallem, Jo Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona
Stitfold and Laurence Evans OAM (Mayor) (7)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
Page No. 29

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
10.11 AMENDMENT C175BAYS SANDRINGHAM GOLF COURSE
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/245860
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. adopts Amendment C175bays and requests the Minister for Planning approve the
combined planning permit and planning scheme amendment
2. adds the following conditions to the planning permit:
a. The sign may only be illuminated between the hours of 6:00am and 11:00pm
except with the prior written consent of the Responsible Authority.
b. The sign lighting must be coloured to prevent any adverse effect on wildlife to the
satisfaction of the Responsible Authority.
c. The lighting must be baffled to ensure no nearby habitat is unreasonably affected
to the satisfaction of the Responsible Authority.
CARRIED
Page No. 30

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
10.12 RESPONSE TO PETITION AND JOINT LETTER - MELROSE STREET
SANDRINGHAM SPACELETS
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/247061
It is recorded that Mr Erik Purcell, and Mrs Vicki Degrenis, Mr Ilias Degrenis & Mr Dimitri
Degrenis each submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Stitfold Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. writes to the lead petitioner informing them that the spacelets and the partial closure of
Melrose Street will be referred to the review of the Footpath Trading Guidelines which is
due to be reported to Council by November 2021
2. writes to the first named signatory of the joint letter informing them that as part of the
Bayside Local Economy Plan, the spacelets are to remain in place until 31 August 2021.
CARRIED
Page No. 31

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
10.13 BAYSIDE DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT CONTRIBUTIONS PLAN REVIEW
City Planning and Amenity - Development Services
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/244573
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
That Council:
1. notes the Drainage Development Contributions Plan (DCP) Review report
2. considers as part of the 2022–23 budget process to undertake new flood modelling to
support the development of an updated Drainage Upgrade Strategy
3. completes the preparation of a new Drainage Upgrade Strategy that includes specific
DCP projects for delivery over the DCP timeframe to 2037
4. investigates the opportunities and specification required for the inclusion of Water
Sensitive Urban Design Projects within the Drainage Upgrade Strategy to be funded
via the DCP
5. undertakes a planning scheme amendment to have regard to the proposed alterations
to the DCP following the adoption of the updated Drainage Upgrade Strategy.
CARRIED
Page No. 32

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
10.14 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE BAYSIDE ARTS AND GALLERY
ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Community and Customer Experience - Customer & Cultural Services
File No: FOL/21/188 – Doc No: DOC/21/243681
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor)
That Council:
1. appoints Lyn Stephens to the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee for a period
of three years commencing 30 August 2021 and concluding 30 August 2024
2. appoints Brian Long to the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee for a period
of three years commencing 30 August 2021 and concluding 30 August 2024.
CARRIED
Page No. 33

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
10.15 REVISED INSTRUMENT OF DELEGATION - PLANNING AND AMENITY
DELEGATED COMMITTEE
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/243475
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor)
The Council:
1. revokes the Planning and Amenity Committee instrument of Delegation established
on 31 July 2020
2. adopts the Planning and Amenity Delegated Committee Instrument of Delegation
dated 17 August 2021 as set out in Attachment 1 to the report.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.15 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Page No. 34

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
10.16 ANNUAL COMMUNITY GRANTS 2021–22
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation & Wellbeing
File No: PSF/21/19 – Doc No: DOC/21/228232
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor)
That Council allocates the 2021–22 Annual Community Grants Program as set out in
Attachment 1 - Annual Community Grants 2021–22.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.16 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Page No. 35

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
10.17 LEASE OF ONE TELECOMMUNICATION SITE TO TELSTRA
Corporate Services - Commercial Services
File No: PSF/21/26 – Doc No: DOC/21/230026
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor)
That Council:
in accordance with Sections 190 and 223 of the Local Government Act 1989,
authorises the Director of Corporate Services to execute 1 new Lease with Telstra
Corporation Limited in accordance with the Heads of Agreements provided in
Attachment 1, for the occupation of 1 site, being part of the Banksia Reserve
Beaumaris West under the following terms:
Site: Banksia Reserve, Beaumaris West
Tenant: Telstra Corporation Limited
Purpose: Construction, maintenance and operation of a telecommunications
network and telecommunications service
Premises: Part of the Land at Banksia Reserve, Beaumaris West
Commencement Date: 1 January 2021
Term: 10 years
Further Term: One Further Term of Ten Years
Commencing Annual Rent: $28,000 plus GST
Rent Escalation: An annual increase of 3% of the rent payable during the prior year.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.17 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Page No. 36

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
10.18 COUNCIL ACTION AWAITING REPORT
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/245557
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor)
That Council notes the Council Action Awaiting Report.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.18 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Page No. 37

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
11. Reports by Delegates
1. Association of Bayside Municipalities – Cr Fiona Stitfold indicated that the ABM has
not met since the previous Council meeting.
2. Metropolitan Transport Forum – Cr Sonia Castelli advised that the MTF met on 4
August and the focus of the meeting was on safer speed limits in urban areas. There were
presentations from Victoria Walks and Maribyrnong City Council. Maribyrnong Council have
been implementing a number of 40km speed limit areas and have found a significant decrease
in the number of vehicle crashes. This has included reducing speed limits, modifying the look
and feel of the road to match the reduced speed limits and implementing speed radar signs to
show drivers how fast they are travelling.
3. Municipal Association of Victoria – Cr Alex del Porto reported that he had received an
email from the President of the MAV, Cr David Clark which indicated that the MAV explored
the financial impacts of a proposition of a rate exemption on the 85,000 social housing
dwellings which are owned and operated by the Victorian Government and community housing
providers, and found it would equate to an estimated annual cost to Victorian ratepayers of
$136.8 million. Over 10 years, more than $1.6 billion would be removed from councils’ existing
rates base. That is $1.6 billion of lost investment in local services and infrastructure for our
communities.
4. Inner South Metropolitan Mayors’ Forum – The Mayor, Cr Laurence Evans OAM
indicated that the ISMMF has not met this year.
5. Metropolitan Local Government Waste Forum – Cr Clarke Martin recently attended a
tour of a glass recycling centre with the Metropolitan Waste Forum. Cr Martin also indicated
that the Forum put forward a motion to write to the Minister for Energy, Environment & Climate
Change to seek early intervention to ensure the MWRRG receives the required support and
resources / funding from the State Government to immediately commence an Advanced Waste
Processing Facility Procurement Process for councils in the northwest of metropolitan
Melbourne, based on the learnings for the south east metropolitan Melbourne councils
procurement process.
6. South East Councils Climate Change Alliance – Crs Clarke Martin and Fiona Stitfold
indicated that the SECCCA has no met since the previous Council meeting.
Moved Cr Stitfold Seconded Cr El Mouallem
That Council:
1. notes the reports by Council delegates
2. appoints Cr Clarke Martin as Council’s joint representative to the Association of Bayside
Municipalities in conjunction with Cr Fiona Stitfold for the remainder of the 2020–21
Council year.
CARRIED
Page No. 38

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
12. Urgent Business
There were no items of Urgent Business submitted to the meeting.
13. Notices of Motion
There were no Notices of Motion submitted to the meeting.
14. Confidential Business
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr del Porto
Motion
That pursuant to Section 66(2)(a) of the Local Government Act 2020 (the Act), the
Council resolves that so much of this meeting be closed to members of the public, as it
involves Council consideration of matters coming within some or all of the following
categories listed in Section 3(1) (confidential information) of such Act:
(a) Council business information
(b) security information
(c) land use planning information
(d) law enforcement information
(e) legal privileged information
(f) personal information
(g) private commercial information, being information provided by a business,
commercial or financial undertaking that—
(i) relates to trade secrets; or
(ii) if released, would unreasonably expose the business, commercial or financial
undertaking to disadvantage;
(h) confidential meeting information
(i) internal arbitration information
(j) Councillor Conduct Panel confidential information
(k) information prescribed by the regulations to be confidential information for the
purposes of this definition
(l) information that was confidential information for the purposes of section 77 of the
Local Government Act 1989.
CARRIED
Page No. 39

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 17 August 2021
Table of Contents
14.1 MINUTES OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S EMPLOYMENT MATTERS
COMMITTEE HELD ON 2 AUGUST 2021
(LGA 2020 Section 3(1)(f) personal information, being information which if released
would result in the unreasonable disclosure of information about any person or their
personal affairs.)
It is recorded that the public gallery was vacated to enable Council to consider the above
listed items in Confidential Business.
Following consideration of Confidential Business, the Chairperson declared the meeting
closed at 10:55pm.
Page No. 40

