Council
Meeting
Council Chamber
Civic Centre
Boxshall Street Brighton
Tuesday
19 July 2022
at 6:30pm
Minutes

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
PRESENT:
Chairperson: Cr Alex del Porto (Mayor)
Councillors: Cr Sonia Castelli
Cr Hanna El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor)
Cr Laurence Evans OAM
Cr Clarke Martin
Cr Jo Samuel-King MBBS
Cr Fiona Stitfold
Officers: Jill Colson – Acting Chief Executive Officer
Kathryn Tozer – Acting Director Corporate Services
Matthew Cripps – Director City Planning and Amenity
Belinda Austin – Manager Project Services
Juliana Aya – Manager Urban Strategy
Terry Callant – Manager Governance
Anita Johnstone – Manager City Assets and Presentation
James Roscoe – Manager Climate, Waste and Integrated Transport
Paul Gibbs – Acting Manager Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
Karen Brown – Governance Coordinator
Robert Lamb – Governance Officer
Page No. 2

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
Table of Contents
1. Prayer
2. Acknowledgement of Country
3. Apologies
4. Disclosure of Conflict of Interest of any Councillor
5. Adoption and Confirmation of the minutes of previous meeting
6. Public Question Time
7. Petitions to Council
7.1 Petition for Council to vote against adoption of Post-War Modern
Heritage Study and mandatory listing of private properties ....... 13
8. Minutes of Advisory Committees
8.1 Records of meetings held under the auspices of Council .......... 14
9. Reports by Special Committees
There were no reports by Special Committees submitted to the meeting.
10. Reports by the Organisation
10.1 Post-War Modern Residential Heritage Study ........................... 16
10.2 Naming of Pennydale as a Neighbourhood ............................... 20
10.3 On-street Parking Surrounding Fern Street, Black Rock ........... 21
10.4 Little Brighton Reserve Community Garden .............................. 22
10.5 Response to petition - to seal Davie Lane, Brighton with tarmac
.................................................................................................. 23
10.6 Volunteer Recruitment, Retention and Recognition Plan 2022–26
.................................................................................................. 24
10.7 Disability Access and Inclusion Committee - Appointment of 2022
Community Members ................................................................ 25
10.8 Appointment of Council members to the Elsternwick Park Nature
Reserve Committee of Management ......................................... 26
10.9 CONTRACT CON/21/154 Hawthorn Road Drainage Upgrade,
Stage 2 - Contract Variation ...................................................... 27
10.10 CONTRACT CON/22/9 Redevelopment of Black Rock Life Saving
Club ........................................................................................... 28
10.11 Council Action Awaiting Report ................................................. 29
Page No. 3

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
11. Reports by Delegates
12. Urgent Business
13. Notices of Motion
13.1 Notice of Motion - 321 - Climate Emergency initiatives and review
.................................................................................................. 31
13.2 Notice of Motion - 322 - Support EveryAGE Counts Campaign 33
Page No. 4

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
The Mayor declared the Council Meeting open at 6:30pm and advised members of the public
gallery that the meeting is being recorded and streamed live on the internet to enhance the
accessibility of Council meetings to the broader Bayside community.
The Mayor invited Cr Castelli to read the prayer.
1. Prayer
Cr Castelli read the prayer at the commencement of the meeting.
O God
Bless this City, Bayside,
Give us courage, strength and wisdom,
So that our deliberations,
May be for the good of all,
Amen
2. Acknowledgement of Country
Cr Stitfold read the acknowledgement of the original inhabitants of this land.
 Bayside City Council proudly acknowledges the Bunurong People of the Kulin
Nation as the Traditional Owners and Custodians of this land, and we pay our
respects to their Elders, past, present and emerging as well as any Aboriginal or
Torres Strait Islander community members with us today.
 Council acknowledges the Bunurong’s continuing relationship to the land and
waterways and respects that their connection and spiritual identity is maintained
through ancient ceremonies, songlines, dance, art and living culture.
 Council pays tribute to the invaluable contributions of the Bunurong and other
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island Elders who have guided and continue to guide
the work we do.
3. Apologies
There were no apologies submitted to the meeting.
4. Disclosure of Conflict of Interest of any Councillor
Cr El Mouallem declared a general conflict of interest in item 10.7 given one of the proposed
members of the Disability Access and Inclusion Advisory Committee is a family member.
Page No. 5

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
5. Adoption and Confirmation of the minutes of previous meeting
5.1 Confirmation of the Minutes of the Bayside City Council Meeting held on 28 June
2022.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That the minutes of the Bayside City Council Meeting held on 28 June 2022, as previously
circulated, be confirmed as an accurate record of proceedings.
CARRIED
6. Public Question Time
In accordance with the resolution at the June 2021 Council Meeting, temporary meeting
procedures with regard to public question time remain in place:
• All questions received and responses are read out at the meeting within the allotted 15
minute timeframe for public question time.
• All questions and responses read out will be recorded in the minutes.
• A written response will be provided to all questions received.
1. Mr Michael Heffernan
Mr Michael Heffernan submitted a question regarding a Supreme Court costs order in
Council’s favour and Mr Heffernan asked:
Question
In response to a question that I asked, and which was considered at the Council Meeting on
15 February this year
a) As 5 months have now elapsed since the above mentioned Council meeting, has the
losing party in the above-mentioned actions, the Brighton foreshore Association, now
complied with those cost orders.
b) If not what action will Bayside Council now consider to enforce these Victorian
Supreme Court costs orders, and consequently recompense Council and ratepayers
for the cost burden imposed on Bayside by the Brighton Foreshore Association’s
failed court actions.
Response from the Acting CEO
Council is actively engaging with the Brighton Foreshore Association in relation to the costs
order. However, the matter has not yet been finalised.
As this is an active matter, Council is not in a position to disclose any further information at
this point in time.
Page No. 6

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
2. Mrs Amanda Mangini
Mrs Amanda Mangini submitted a question regarding the changes to Council’s bin collection
schedule, and Mrs Mangini asked:
Question
a) How do you expect a family of five with two working parents to adhere to the same waste
requirements as a single person household? We pay thousands of dollars in rates yet my
rubbish is overflowing.
b) This is attracting rats and crows. Has the council considered the effects to the community
of extra rodents as we leave our garbage on the ground waiting for it to be collected?
Response from the Acting CEO
a) The changes to the bin collection schedules are aimed at reducing the amount of waste
our community sends to landfill and protecting residents from increasing waste collection
and disposal costs.
Council’s most recent audit found that over 50% of the material in the general waste bin
could be disposed of into either the recycling or food and green waste bins.
There are options available to support Bayside households that may generate large
amounts of waste. This includes an eligibility criterion for free upsized or additional bins
for households with unavoidable waste needs (such as households with two children in
nappies) or options to order larger or additional general waste bins at an additional cost.
b) The changes to bin collections means most waste is now collected weekly. There are
several councils across Australia who have had this changed collection schedule in place
for many years. There is no evidence to suggest that a weekly collection of organics bins,
and fortnightly collection of general waste bins presents any health hazards or increases
the chances of rodent or pest activity.
3. Mr George Reynolds
Mr George Reynolds submitted a question regarding Council’s 2022–23 Budget, and Mr
Reynolds asked:
Question
In relation to the 2022/23 Budget, approved by a majority of Councillors, on June 28th 2022:
(a) Will Council please advise where, in the budget documents, is the expenditure
amount shown, to identify "the estimated amount to be raised by the general rates" in
order to satisfy the requirements of Part 3, section 5(c) of the Local Government
Planning and Reporting) Regulations 2020
(b) Where, also, is the "estimated amount to be raised by municipal charges", in order to
satisfy the requirements of Part 3,section 5(j) of the Local Government (Planning and
Reporting) Regulations 2020.?
Response from the Acting CEO
Part 3 Section 8(5) of the Local Government (Planning and Reporting) Regulations 2020
requires Council to include the amount raised by general rates as well as the municipal
charge. This can be found in the Council’s budget on page 45 under Section 4.1.1 Rates and
Charges. The regulations do not require Council to disclose the expenditure amount in
relation to rates raised.
Page No. 7

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
4. Mr George Reynolds
Mr George Reynolds submitted a further question regarding Council’s 2022–23 Budget, and
Mr Reynolds asked:
Question
In relation to the 2022/23 budget, approved by a majority of Councillors on June 28th 2022:
(a) Will Council please advise where, in the budget documents, is the expenditure
amount shown, to identify "the estimated amount to be raised by each type of service
rate or charge", in order to satisfy the requirements of Part 3, section 5(m) off the
Local Government (Planning and Reporting) Regulations 2020
(b) Will Council please advise where, in the budget documents, is the revenue shown, to
identify "the adjusted underlying revenue" and its related "own-source revenue", in
order to satisfy the requirements of Schedule 3, Part 1 - Preliminary, of the Local
Government (Planning and Reporting) Regulations 2020?
Response from the Acting CEO
(a) The Local Government (Planning and Reporting) Regulations 2020 do not require
Council to disclose the expenditure amount in relation to rates raised.
(b) Schedule 3 Part 1 of the regulations specify the definition for adjusted underlying
revenue and own source revenue. In accordance with the Local Government Model
Financial report, Council has disclosed the adjusted underlying result under Section 5
Financial Performance Indicators on page 75 of the budget document.
5. Ms Helen Gries
Ms Helen Gries submitted a question regarding the Little Brighton Reserve Community
Garden, and Ms Gries asked:
Question
When will the ‘Friends of the Little Brighton Reserve Community Garden’ be likely to see the
basic shelter and tool shed handwashing basin and water supply similar to plans submitted
Feb 2021?
Response from the Acting CEO
A report on the Little Brighton Reserve Community Garden will be considered at this
evening’s Council meeting.
The proposal is to proceed with the community garden on a small scale, which will include
the provision of a tap connected to mains water to enable hand washing and watering, and a
storage unit for small gardening tools.
Introducing the garden initially on a small scale will allow infrastructure to be removed if there
is insufficient community support to manage the garden. Conversely, if the garden is
managed well and community support for the project builds, there is the opportunity to
extend the garden with further plots and associated infrastructure.
Page No. 8

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
6. Mrs Mary Larsen
Mrs Mary Larsen submitted a question regarding the proposed Post-War Modern Residential
Heritage Study, and Mrs Larsen asked:
Question
How can Council claim the current heritage study is an expert report when 10% of the homes
have been removed due to significant errors in the citations and many other homeowners
have cited similar significant errors?
Response from the Acting CEO
Council engaged a suitably qualified consultant to undertake the Post-War Modern
Residential Heritage Study whose methodology aligns with standard approaches for
undertaking heritage studies in Victoria.
The reason Council undertook consultation with affected property owners prior to the
completion of the Study was to ensure that any additional information to support Council’s
understanding of the property could be obtained and that any errors could be identified and
addressed.
As a result, there were a number of Statements of Significance which were redrafted to
respond to additional information or corrections identified by affected property owners.
7. Mrs Mary Larsen
Mrs Mary Larsen submitted a further question regarding the proposed Post-War Modern
Residential Heritage Study, and Mrs Larsen asked:
Question
What is the reason Council have accepted the current heritage study as a fully
comprehensive study of all the "places of significance across the City of Bayside" as listed in
the Scope specifications when the majority of buildings have been regurgitated from a
desktop analysis of previous studies, while ignoring many other properties across Bayside
which meet the significance criteria.
Response from the Acting CEO
The purpose of the Post-War Modern Residential Heritage Study has been stated in Volume
1 of the Study, ‘to identify residential buildings and precincts constructed within the
municipality in the post-war period (between 1945 and 1975) and to determine whether they
satisfy the threshold for local heritage significance and inclusion in the Heritage Overlay of
the Bayside Planning Scheme.’
The Study was not a peer review of previous work and was scoped to be a ‘from scratch’
analysis of properties across Bayside for potential heritage significance. This involved
undertaking a desktop analysis of over 14,500 properties across Bayside that were
constructed between 1945 and 1975 to identify properties of potential significance. This was
then further assessed through site visits and further analysis of potential properties. From
this, a list of approximately 128 individual places and three precincts were identified for the
detailed heritage assessment stage. This stage resulted in the removal of several places,
and the inclusion of 98 individual places and one group listing the draft Study, which was
made available for submissions from property owners between February and April 2022
where further refinements were made.
If properties have been identified in more than one Study, it is likely that these places are
considered to be of heritage value as multiple consultants have recommended their inclusion
in the Heritage Overlay rather than a ‘regurgitation’ of previous work.
Page No. 9

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
8. Ms Lea Jaensch
Ms Lea Jaensch submitted a question regarding the proposed Post-War Modern Residential
Heritage Study, and Ms Jaensch asked:
Question
How can Council consider adopting the proposed Heritage study when submissions by
homeowners were ignored and there are so many inaccuracies in the reviewed citations?
Response from the Acting CEO
Council has considered submissions and provided a response within the Draft Post-War
Modern Residential Heritage Study Consultation Report which is available on Council’s
website.
The scope of this engagement was limited to Council requesting any factual information that
may influence the assessment of the property. The primary opportunity to challenge the
merits of the assessment and its inclusion in the Heritage Overlay will be through any
subsequent planning scheme amendment process. If a Planning Scheme Amendment is to
commence, there is a statutory 28-day public exhibition process where affected persons can
make a submission. Any unresolved submissions can then be referred to an Independent
Planning Panel to explore Council’s methodology, the merits of listing each place and any
content changes to the Statement of Significance and Heritage Citation.
9. Mr Neill Wiffin
Mr Neill Wiffin submitted a question regarding the proposed Post-War Modern Residential
Heritage Study, and Mr Wiffin asked:
Question
How does Bayside Council plan to communicate to the wider Community that Bayside
already has more Heritage listed homes per head of population than any other council in the
greater metro region. Bayside City Council is a leader in heritage matters and Council should
be proud of its achievements.
Response from the Acting CEO
Bayside City Council adopted its Heritage Action Plan 2020 which guides Council’s heritage
work program, particularly the identification, protection, management and promotion of
Bayside’s heritage assets for the next 15 years.
Included in the Heritage Action Plan are actions relating to ‘communicating and promoting’
heritage and this sets out the approach to be taken in relation to this theme. Section 5 of the
Heritage Action Plan also notes several of Council’s achievements in relation to heritage
protection.
Page No. 10

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
10. Mr Ian Larsen
Mr Ian Larsen submitted a question regarding the proposed Post-War Modern Residential
Heritage Study, and Mr Larsen asked:
Question
Please advise
(a) the names of the community groups who referred homes to the current heritage study
and the buildings referred
(b) the 3 buildings which were referred by Heritage Victoria and the names of the residents
who nominated the buildings
Response from the Acting CEO
Council cannot disclose personal or private information or details of any hypothetical
correspondence without the applicant making a Freedom of Information (FOI) Request.
Heritage Victoria does not provide Council with the details of any person or organisation who
makes a nomination to the Victorian Heritage Register as this too is protected through a
Freedom of Information process.
11. Mr Ian Larsen
Mr Ian Larsen submitted a further question regarding the proposed Post-War Modern
Residential Heritage Study, and Mr Larsen asked:
Question
The Planning Minister in his letter dated 24.5.2020 recommended the "update and
implementation of the Inter-War and Post-War Heritage Study". What is the reason Council
did not pursue his recommendation, but chose to implement a Mid-Century Modern Heritage
Study and then change the name to the Post-War Modern Residential Study.
Response from the Acting CEO
At its Council Meeting on 23 June 2020, Council considered the letter received by the
Minister for Planning and resolved, in part, the following:
That Council:
1. Adopts the revised Heritage Action Plan 2020 (Attachment 2 to the report), which
sets out a holistic approach to assessing and managing heritage, including:
a. Prioritisation of the Mid-Century Modern Heritage Study to commence in
2020/21 to be funded via savings from the operational budget; and
b. Prioritisation of the Inter-War and Post-War Heritage Study to commence in
2021/22.
The separation of the review of the Inter-War and Post-War Heritage Study from the Mid-
Century Modern Heritage Study was resolved primarily due to the significant costs
associated with undertaking the review. A staged approach was nominated as outlined in the
Action Plan and the resolution of Council.
Page No. 11

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
12. Mr Luke Balloch
Mr Luke Balloch submitted a question regarding the proposed Post-War Modern Residential
Heritage Study, and Mr Balloch asked:
Question
How can the Heritage Overlay Study not be an example of discrimination against those
unlucky homeowners who were chosen almost at random? When another block of units in
the same street as ours, same year of build, the same architect is not considered to be a part
of the study?
Response from the Acting CEO
Without knowing the particulars of the other property referred to, it is not presently possible to
speculate whether the property referenced has been assessed and eliminated or whether
there has been another outcome.
Throughout the preparation stages of the Study, many residential places have been
eliminated as a result of further assessments of places. Some of the reasons are that
individual places may not be considered intact representative examples of the post-war
modern era, or that they may not otherwise meet the threshold for inclusion.
13. Mr Luke Balloch
Mr Luke Balloch submitted a further question regarding the proposed Post-War Modern
Residential Heritage Study, and Mr Balloch asked:
Question
How can the Heritage consultants GJM take our feedback from how our units have been
altered over the last 30+ years and should not be considered heritage. Then make
amendments to their own research so that the benefits support their side of the heritage
issue? This is not fair play.
Response from the Acting CEO
The purpose of the consultation period on the draft Study was to seek any information from
property owners to either support or challenge the findings identified within the draft
Statement of Significance prepared for their property. Some information provided resulted in
corrections or clarifications to material they had previously prepared, and other information
resulted in several properties being removed from the Study.
The opportunity to challenge or explore the findings from the Study will be through any
subsequent planning scheme amendment process, as part of the Planning Panel stage.
Page No. 12

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
7. Petitions to Council
7.1 PETITION FOR COUNCIL TO VOTE AGAINST ADOPTION OF POST-
WAR MODERN HERITAGE STUDY AND MANDATORY LISTING OF
PRIVATE PROPERTIES
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/22/35 – Doc No: DOC/22/207064
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Castelli
That the petition be received and considered in conjunction with item 10.1 on this agenda.
CARRIED
Page No. 13

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
8. Minutes of Advisory Committees
8.1 RECORDS OF MEETINGS HELD UNDER THE AUSPICES OF COUNCIL
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/22/31 – Doc No: DOC/22/206891
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council notes the records of meeting/s held under the auspices of Council as required
by the Local Government Act 2020 and Council’s Governance Rules:
• 5 July 2022 Councillor Briefing.
CARRIED
Page No. 14

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
9. Reports by Special Committees
There were no reports by Special Committees submitted to the meeting.
10. Reports by the Organisation
REQUESTS TO BE HEARD:
In accordance with Chapter 2, Division 10 of Council’s Governance Rules (Individual
Presentations), the following individuals were granted two minutes each to speak to an item
indicated below.
The following individuals submitted written statements to the meeting:
Item 10.2 For (F)
Against (A)
Naming of Pennydale as a neighbourhood
Requests to Speak
1. Mr Derek Screen (on behalf of Pennydale Residents (F)
Action Group (Inc))
Item 10.6 For (F)
Against (A)
Volunteer Recruitment, Retention and Recognition Plan
2022–26
Written Statements
1. Ms Sue Forster (on behalf of Friends of Bay Road (F)
Heathland Sanctuary)
Page No. 15

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
10.1 POST-WAR MODERN RESIDENTIAL HERITAGE STUDY
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/22/35 – Doc No: DOC/22/200726
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
PART A
That Council:
1. notes the submissions, written statements and requests to be heard received in
relation to the draft Post-War Modern Residential Heritage Study at the Delegated
Committee meeting held on 15 and 16 June 2022
2. notes the Post-War Modern Residential Heritage Study.
CARRIED
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
PART B
That Council resolves that the following properties do not meet the relevant threshold for
inclusion in a heritage overlay:
a. 26 Anita Street, BEAUMARIS
b. 1-15/405 Beach Road, BEAUMARIS
c. 9 Coreen Avenue, BEAUMARIS
d. 105 Dalgetty Road, BEAUMARIS
e. 20 Emily Street, BEAUMARIS
f. 22 Gramatan Avenue, BEAUMARIS
g. 1-4/2-4 Haldane Street, BEAUMARIS
h. 19 Haldane Street, BEAUMARIS
i. 54 Haldane Street, BEAUMARIS
j. 1 Herbert Street, BEAUMARIS
k. 18 Hume Street, BEAUMARIS
l. 1 Hutchison Avenue, BEAUMARIS
m. 22 Michael Street, BEAUMARIS
n. 21 Point Avenue, BEAUMARIS
o. 50 Scott Street, BEAUMARIS
p. 132 Tramway Parade, BEAUMARIS
Page No. 16

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
q. 1-8/114 Bluff Road, BLACK ROCK
r. 1-6/5-7 Red Bluff Street, BLACK ROCK
s. 15 Third Street, BLACK ROCK
t. 1-8/175 Church Street, BRIGHTON
u. 9 Merton Avenue, BRIGHTON
v. 42 North Road, BRIGHTON
w. 18 South Road, BRIGHTON
x. 4 Mernda Avenue, CHELTENHAM
y. 148 Weatherall Road, CHELTENHAM
z. 1-4/94 Bay Road, SANDRINGHAM
aa. 1-7/150 Beach Road, SANDRINGHAM
bb. 1-6/57 Royal Avenue and 1-6/64 Victoria Street, SANDRINGHAM.
PROCEDURAL MOTION
Moved:Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Castelli
That Cr Samuel-King be granted an additional 1 minute to debate.
CARRIED
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto (Mayor), Sonia Castelli, Jo Samuel-King
MBBS and Hanna El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) (4)
AGAINST: Crs Clarke Martin, Fiona Stitfold and Laurence Evans OAM (3)
CARRIED
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
PART C
That Council:
1. writes to the Minister for Planning to seek authorisation to commence the planning
scheme amendment to introduce a heritage overlay based on those properties
identified in the Post-War Modern Residential Heritage Study, with the deletion of
properties listed in Part B above
2. further requests authorisation from the Minister for Planning to commence a planning
scheme amendment to apply interim heritage controls to those properties identified
in the Post-War Modern Residential Heritage Study, with the deletion of properties
listed in Part B, while the planning scheme process for permanent controls is in
progress
Page No. 17

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
3. authorises the relevant delegated officer to make any editorial or minor changes to
the Amendment documentation prior to requesting authorisation from the Minister for
Planning, should this be necessitated
4. once authorised, exhibits the planning scheme amendment seeking permanent
controls, in accordance with any conditions imposed by the Minister for Planning
5. notes that after the exhibition of the planning scheme amendment, where submission
are received seeking changes to the proposed amendment, that a request will be
made of the Minister for Planning to appoint an independent Planning Panel to
consider those submissions received
6. writes to all affected property owners and submitters to advise them of Council’s
decision
7. notes the receipt of the petition referred to as item 7.1 on the agenda, and advises
the lead petitioners of Council’s decision on this matter.
PROCEDURAL MOTION
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Samuel-King
That Cr Castelli be granted an additional 1 minute to debate.
CARRIED
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto (Mayor), Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli, Jo
Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona Stitfold, Laurence Evans OAM and
Hanna El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) (7)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
Part D
That Council:
1. writes to the Minister for Planning and the State Opposition Spokesperson for
Planning, advocating for heritage reforms, reinforcing Council’s position outlined in
its submission to the Parliamentary Inquiry into the Protections within the Victorian
Planning Framework and highlighting the fundamental flaws of the heritage
amendment process which includes:
a. Council’s responsibilities in deciding heritage matters is compromised by the
inability to provide certainty to the community, given the powers that the
Planning and Environment Act 1987 affords the Minister for Planning to
disregard Council’s adopted position
b. it being unfairly weighted against property owner rights
c. it does not define properties with high heritage value and those with limited/
borderline heritage value due to the inadequacy of the current criteria and
Page No. 18

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
processes for heritage protection. There is a need for the criteria and
assessments approach to be updated to include grading of the heritage places
on their condition and physical intactness (ie. excellent, good, fair, and poor)
d. it does not allow the consideration of the following factors:
i. social factors including the potential financial, social, health and mental
health related impacts of listing heritage properties
ii. unreasonable financial costs
iii. best use of land
iv. desired neighbourhood character
v. climate change and ESD factors
vi. the condition of the property.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto (Mayor), Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli, Jo
Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona Stitfold, Laurence Evans OAM and
Hanna El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) (7)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
Page No. 19

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
10.2 NAMING OF PENNYDALE AS A NEIGHBOURHOOD
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/22/206247
It is recorded that Mr Derek Screen (on behalf of Pennydale Residents Action Group (Inc))
spoke for two minutes in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Evans OAM Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. formally resolves that the area known as Pennydale be known as a neighbourhood
2. requests the Geographical Names Victoria to register the neighbourhood and gazette
the proposal
3. installs appropriate signage at locations detailed in the report to acknowledge the
neighbourhood.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto (Mayor), Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli, Jo
Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona Stitfold, Laurence Evans OAM and
Hanna El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) (7)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
Page No. 20

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
10.3 ON-STREET PARKING SURROUNDING FERN STREET, BLACK ROCK
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Climate, Waste and Integrated Transport
File No: PSF/22/26 – Doc No: DOC/22/195974
Moved: Cr Evans OAM Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. notes this report
2. does not implement a Resident Permit Parking Scheme in the streets surrounding the
development at 2–6 Fern Street, Black Rock until parking occupancy data were to
suggest that such controls are required for any given street in accordance with
Council’s Managing On-Street Parking Demand Policy
3. notes that the parking study be undertaken within 4 weeks following operation of the
site.
CARRIED
Page No. 21

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
10.4 LITTLE BRIGHTON RESERVE COMMUNITY GARDEN
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Climate, Waste and Integrated Transport
File No: PSF/22/26 – Doc No: DOC/22/199958
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor)
That Council:
1. notes the report and the outcome of community consultation on the proposed Little
Brighton Reserve Community Garden
2. proceeds with immediate implementation of the Little Brighton Reserve Community
Garden as designed by ‘Cultivating Community’ (Attachment 2) using funds from the
2022–23 budget
3. receives a further report within 6 months.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto (Mayor), Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli, Jo
Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona Stitfold, Laurence Evans OAM and
Hanna El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) (7)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
Page No. 22

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
10.5 RESPONSE TO PETITION - TO SEAL DAVIE LANE, BRIGHTON WITH
TARMAC
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - City Assets and Presentation
File No: PSF/22/29 – Doc No: DOC/22/186556
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council:
1. supports the petition and considers capital upgrade of the laneway in the 2023–24
capital works program
2. notes that Council officers will undertake formal community consultation to confirm
the results of the survey prior to the commencement of the project.
CARRIED
Page No. 23

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
10.6 VOLUNTEER RECRUITMENT, RETENTION AND RECOGNITION PLAN
2022–26
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
File No: PSF/22/27 – Doc No: DOC/22/185440
It is recorded that Ms Sue Forster (on behalf of Friends of Bay Road Heathland Sanctuary)
submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council adopts the Volunteer Recruitment, Retention and Recognition Plan 2022–26
as set out in Attachment 1.
CARRIED
Page No. 24

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
10.7 DISABILITY ACCESS AND INCLUSION COMMITTEE - APPOINTMENT
OF 2022 COMMUNITY MEMBERS
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
File No: PSF/22/27 – Doc No: DOC/22/205167
It is recorded that Cr El Mouallem declared a general conflict of interest in this item given
one of the proposed members of the Disability Access and Inclusion Advisory Committee is
a close family member. Cr El Mouallem left the meeting at 8.30 pm.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council:
1. reappoints the current 9 members of the Disability Access and Inclusion Advisory
Committee for a period of 2 years from 19 July 2022 and ending 19 July 2024:
Ms Emily Costello
Mr Ade Djajamihardja
Mr Mark Glascodine
Ms Jo Levett
Mr Jeff Naylor
Ms Emma Olivier
Mr Sam Seoud
Mr Andrew Turner
Ms Tara Webb
2. appoints Ms Fel Andronicou to the remaining vacant community member position of
the Disability Access and Inclusion Advisory Committee for a period of 2 years from
19 July 2022 and ending 19 July 2024
3. thanks the remaining community applicants who applied via the Expression of
Interest process
4. notes that Cr Clarke Martin (Chairperson) and Cr Hanna El Mouallem remain as
Councillor members of the Disability Access and Inclusion Advisory Committee until
Council next determines Councillor appointments to committees at its Annual
Meeting to be held in November 2022
5. endorses the minor revisions to the Disability Access and Inclusion Advisory
Committee Terms of Reference set out in Attachment 1.
CARRIED
It is recorded that Cr El Mouallem was not present in the meeting during debate or when the
vote was taken on the above matter.
Cr El Mouallem returned to the meeting at 8.32 pm.
Page No. 25

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
10.8 APPOINTMENT OF COUNCIL MEMBERS TO THE ELSTERNWICK PARK
NATURE RESERVE COMMITTEE OF MANAGEMENT
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
File No: PSF/22/27 – Doc No: DOC/22/202224
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Martin
The Council:
1. appoints Cr El Mouallem and Cr Samuel-King as Councillor representatives to the
Elsternwick Park Nature Reserve Committee of Management
2. appoints Cr Samuel-King as Chair of the Elsternwick Park Nature Reserve
Committee of Management
3. receives a further report on the appointment of community members and technical
experts to the Elsternwick Park Nature Reserve Committee of Management at the
August 2022 Council Meeting.
CARRIED
Page No. 26

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
10.9 CONTRACT CON/21/154 HAWTHORN ROAD DRAINAGE UPGRADE,
STAGE 2 - CONTRACT VARIATION
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Project Services
File No: PSF/22/28 – Doc No: DOC/22/195972
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council:
1. approves an increase of $966,630 excl. GST to CON/21/154 to complete the
Hawthorn Road Stormwater Drainage Upgrade Project Stage 2
2. authorises the Chief Executive Officer to sign all necessary documentation related
to CON/21/154 Hawthorn Road Stormwater Drainage Upgrade Project Stage 2.
CARRIED
Page No. 27

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
10.10 CONTRACT CON/22/9 REDEVELOPMENT OF BLACK ROCK LIFE
SAVING CLUB
Corporate Services - Commercial Services
File No: PSF/22/28 – Doc No: DOC/22/132345
Moved: Cr Evans OAM Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. awards Contract CON/22/9 Redevelopment of Black Rock Life Saving Club to SJ
Higgins Pty Ltd (ABN: 14 005 648 395) for the lump sum price of $5,077,123.00 (excl.
GST), which is $5,584,835.30 (including GST)
2. authorises the Chief Executive Officer to sign all necessary documentation related to
Contract CON/22/9 Redevelopment of Black Rock Life Saving Club
3. advises the unsuccessful tenderers accordingly.
CARRIED
Page No. 28

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
10.11 COUNCIL ACTION AWAITING REPORT
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/22/31 – Doc No: DOC/22/206843
Moved: Cr Evans OAM Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council notes the Council Action Awaiting Report.
CARRIED
Page No. 29

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
11. Reports by Delegates
1. Association of Bayside Municipalities – Crs Fiona Stitfold and Clarke Martin attended
a meeting of the Association and as a result of a recent motion passed at the MAV State
Council Meeting the Association will commence advocating for the health of the bay at
the upcoming State election.
2. Metropolitan Transport Forum – The Acting Director Environment, Recreation &
Infrastructure indicated that a Council officer attended the Forum held in early July.
3. Municipal Association of Victoria – The Mayor, Cr Alex del Porto reported that Cr
Clarke Martin as substitute representative attended the State Council Meeting. Cr Martin
reported that Bayside’s 8 motions were passed at the State Council Meeting. The
meeting also discussed significant changes to the rules of the MAV which will be
presented at the October meeting for resolution.
4. Inner South Metropolitan Mayors’ Forum – The Mayor, Cr Alex del Porto reporting the
forum with Mayor did not occur; however, the CEOs did meet to discuss the advocacy
program for the upcoming State election.
5. Metropolitan Local Government Waste Forum – Cr Clarke Martin advised that he has
been officially advised that the Metro Local Government Waste Forum has been officially
abolished, and he was thanked for his contribution to the Forum.
6. South East Councils Climate Change Alliance – Crs Clarke Martin and Fiona Stitfold
indicated that there was nothing to report on since the previous meeting.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That the Reports by Delegates be received and noted.
CARRIED
12. Urgent Business
There were no items of urgent business submitted to the meeting.
Page No. 30

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
13. Notices of Motion
13.1 NOTICE OF MOTION - 321 - CLIMATE EMERGENCY INITIATIVES AND
REVIEW
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/22/203865
Procedural Motion
Moved: Cr Evans Seconded: Cr Castelli
That Cr Martin and Cr Stitfold be granted leave to amend Notice of Motion 321.
CARRIED
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Stitfold
Part A:
That Council reiterates its commitment to addressing the Climate Emergency and highlights
the following actions:
1. advocate to the Federal Member for Goldstein for:
a. the allocation of funding through the Federal Budget process for local
infrastructure projects that help to address climate change including Electric
Vehicle charging stations powered by renewable energy and community battery
initiatives
b. urgent action at the Federal level to continue to drive reduction in greenhouse
emissions
2. advocate to the parties contesting the State election for:
a. the establishment of an ambitious state-based greenhouse gas emissions target
backed by concrete actions to deliver it
b. SECCA recommended changes to the State Planning controls to mandate
climate-appropriate development based on strong ESD requirements.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Clarke Martin, Fiona Stitfold and Hanna El Mouallem
(Deputy Mayor) (3)
AGAINST: Crs Alex del Porto (Mayor), Sonia Castelli, Jo Samuel-King
MBBS and Laurence Evans OAM (4)
LOST
Page No. 31

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Stitfold
Part B:
That Council:
1. undertakes a critical review of the Council Plan for the remaining 2 years, integrating
Bayside’s Declaration of a Climate Emergency, the opportunities from the change in
Federal Government and new policies, and potential for government grants to
address climate impacts. This review is to take place in preparation for the Year 3
Council Plan review
2. reviews its decision-making processes to ensure that all matters coming to Council
do no harm, by taking into consideration the broader climate context.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Clarke Martin, Jo Samuel-King MBBS and Fiona Stitfold (3)
AGAINST: Crs Alex del Porto (Mayor), Sonia Castelli, Laurence Evans
OAM and Hanna El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) (4)
LOST
Page No. 32

Bayside City Council Council Meeting - 19 July 2022
13.2 NOTICE OF MOTION - 322 - SUPPORT EVERYAGE COUNTS
CAMPAIGN
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/22/204173
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. supports the ‘EveryAGE counts’ campaign to end ageism and create a society where
every person is valued, connected and respected regardless of age
2. pledges to stand for a world without ageism where all people of all ages are valued
and respected and their contributions are acknowledged, and speaks out and takes
action to ensure older people can participate on equal terms with others in all
aspects of life
3. commits to the pledge of EveryAGE counts to create opportunities in our
communities to build awareness of ageism and its impacts
4. informs local State and Federal parliamentarians of Council’s support for the
EveryAGE counts campaign and encourages the parliamentarians to take the
pledge.
PROCEDURAL MOTION
Moved:Cr Martin Seconded: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor)
That Cr Castelli be granted an additional 1 minute to debate.
CARRIED
PROCEDURAL MOTION
Moved:Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Martin
That Cr Castelli be granted an additional 30 seconds to debate.
CARRIED
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto (Mayor), Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli, Jo
Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona Stitfold, Laurence Evans OAM and
Hanna El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) (7)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
The Mayor declared the meeting closed at 9.32pm.
Page No. 33

