Council
Meeting
held remotely
and live-streamed via
Council’s website
Tuesday
23 November 2021
at 6:30pm
Minutes

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
PRESENT:
Chair: Cr Alex del Porto (Mayor)
Councillors: Cr Sonia Castelli
Cr Hanna El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor)
Cr Laurence Evans OAM
Cr Clarke Martin
Cr Jo Samuel-King MBBS
Cr Fiona Stitfold
Officers: Mick Cummins – Chief Executive Officer
Jill Colson – Director Corporate Services
Bryce Craggs – Director Community and Customer Experience
Matthew Cripps – Director City Planning and Amenity
Adam McSwain – Director Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure
Juliana Aya – Acting Manager Transport and Sustainability
Terry Callant – Manager Governance and Corporate Reporting
Julian Donlen – Coordinator Environmental Sustainability
Robert Lamb – Governance Officer
Page No. 2

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
Table of Contents
1. Prayer
2. Acknowledgement of Country
3. Apologies
4. Disclosure of any Conflict of Interest of any Councillor
5. Adoption and Confirmation of the minutes of previous meeting
6. Public Question Time
7. Petitions to Council
7.1 Petition to designate 7 Well Street, Brighton to be public open
space with children's playground facilities ................................. 12
8. Minutes of Advisory Committees
8.1 Records of meetings held under the auspices of Council .......... 13
8.2 Minutes of the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee
meeting held on 27 October 2021 ............................................. 14
8.3 Minutes of the Disability Access and Inclusion Advisory Committee
meeting held on 8 November 2021 ........................................... 15
9. Reports by Special Committees
There were no Reports by Special Committees submitted to the meeting.
10. Reports by the Organisation
10.1 Establishing a Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Target for
the entire Bayside Community ................................................... 17
10.2 Elsternwick Park Nature Reserve funding agreement with the City
of Port Phillip - update ............................................................... 18
10.3 Dendy Street Beach - Erosion Mitigation Update ...................... 19
10.4 Suburban Rail Loop Advocacy Action Plan and Project Update 21
10.5 Update on the review of criteria for assessing discretionary height
controls in activity centres ......................................................... 22
10.6 Sustainable Building and Infrastructure Policy .......................... 23
10.7 Environmental Upgrade Finance ............................................... 24
10.8 Submission to the draft Inner South-East Region Land Use
Framework Plan ........................................................................ 25
10.9 Officer Submission to Inquiry into Apartment Design Standards 26
Page No. 3

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
10.10 Complaints Handling Policy 2021 .............................................. 27
10.11 Revised Councillor Code of Conduct ......................................... 28
10.12 2021–22 1st Quarter Performance Report (July–September 2021)
.................................................................................................. 29
10.13 Council Action Awaiting Report ................................................. 30
11. Reports by Delegates
12. Urgent Business
13. Notices of Motion
13.1 Notice of Motion - 317 - Noisy Miner Project - Restoring the
Balance ..................................................................................... 32
14. Confidential Business
14.1 Minutes of the Chief Executive Officer's Employment Matters
Advisory Committee held on 3 November 2021 ........................ 33
Page No. 4

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
The Mayor declared the Council Meeting open at 6:30pm and noted that the meeting was
being held remotely via electronic media. The meeting was recorded and streamed live on the
internet.
The Mayor invited Cr El Mouallem to read the prayer.
1. Prayer
Cr El Mouallem read the prayer at the commencement of the meeting.
O God
Bless this City, Bayside,
Give us courage, strength and wisdom,
So that our deliberations,
May be for the good of all,
Amen
2. Acknowledgement of Country
The Mayor invited Cr Evans to read the acknowledgement of Country.
 Bayside City Council proudly acknowledges the Bunurong People of the Kulin
Nation as the Traditional Owners and Custodians of this land, and we pay our
respects to their Elders, past, present and emerging as well as any Aboriginal or
Torres Strait Islander community members with us today.
 Council acknowledges the Bunurong’s continuing relationship to the land and
waterways and respects that their connection and spiritual identity is maintained
through ancient ceremonies, songlines, dance, art and living culture.
 Council pays tribute to the invaluable contributions of the Bunurong and other
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island Elders who have guided and continue to guide
the work we do.
3. Apologies
There were no apologies submitted to the meeting.
Page No. 5

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
4. Disclosure of any Conflict of Interest of any Councillor
Cr El Mouallem declared a general conflict of interest in Item 7.1 (petition to designate 7 Well
Street, Brighton to be public open space with children's playground facilities) given he owns a
property in close proximity to 7 Well Street.
Cr Samuel-King declared a general conflict of interest in Item 10.2 (Elsternwick Park Nature
Reserve funding agreement with the City of Port Phillip – update) given her partner is a
contractor involved with the Elsternwick Park Nature Reserve.
Cr Castelli declared a general conflict of interest in Item 10.3 (Dendy Street Beach - Erosion
Mitigation Update) given her partner owns a bathing box at Dendy Street Beach.
Procedural Motion
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That the Council:
1. considers the meeting to be adjourned for 10 minutes from the commencement of any
technical problem which prevents Council from livestreaming the meeting
2. adjourns the meeting to be reconvened on Wednesday 24 November 2021 at 6:30pm
via livestreaming on Council’s website, in the event livestreaming cannot be resumed
within 30 minutes from the commencement of the technical problem which prevents
livestreaming on Council’s website.
CARRIED
5. Adoption and Confirmation of the minutes of previous meeting
5.1 Confirmation of the Minutes of the Ordinary meeting of Bayside City Council held on
26 October 2021.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That the minutes of the Ordinary meeting of Bayside City Council held on 26 October
2021, as previously circulated, be confirmed as an accurate record of proceedings.
CARRIED
Page No. 6

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
6. Public Question Time
In accordance with Chapter 2, Section 57 of Council’s Governance Rules, 7 public questions
were submitted to the Meeting. In accordance with the resolution at the June 2021 Ordinary
Meeting of Council, temporary meeting procedures with regard to public question time are in
place:
• All questions received and responses are read out at the meeting within the allotted 15
minute timeframe for public question time.
• All questions and responses read out will be recorded in the minutes.
• A written response will be provided to all questions received.
1. Mr Miralem Basic
Mr Miralem Basic submitted a question regarding consideration of the site at 7 Well Street,
Brighton, and Mr Basic asked:
Question
a) I (sic) like to know who is responsible for wasting rate payer money for authorizing for
house on 7 Well street Brighton to be demolished before appropriate permits/ rezone
and assessment on how to use public assets in best interest of the community (up to
this date over $150,000 loss of rental income for number 7 Well st Brighton plus costs
associated with demolishing and works plus officers time to rezone number 7 Well st
Brighton for 13 carspots which was rejected by the planning minster )
b) Also can you please explain why public consultation information about usage of the
residential property at 7 Well st Brighton indicate that 28 extra car parking spots can
be provided ignoring the fact that land need to be rezoned and only 13 carspots (net
increase) can be build in order to comply with Class 3A short term parking (2P) and
australian standard AS/NZS 2890.1:2004
Response from the CEO
a) Council bought the property in 2005 for the purpose of it being made into a carpark. It
was leased until 2018 when the lease was terminated to allow for demolition and
proposed creation of a new carpark. Demolition was undertaken in May 2018. The
demolition was delivered in line with the 2018–19 budget which was adopted by
Council.
b) Council has not yet made a decision on the future land use for 7 Well Street,
Brighton, which will be presented to Council at its December 2021 Ordinary Meeting.
Community feedback was sought on a range of potential uses, with the findings from
the community engagement process forming part of the future report to Council. As
this site was previously proposed to be used for car parking, a design has been
prepared for the site. Council has not yet confirmed its intentions for this site and
were it to consider a car park, the number of car parking bays to be provided will
need to be confirmed.
Page No. 7

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
2. Mrs Sue Forster
Mrs Sue Forster submitted a question regarding the Bayside Netball Centre, and Mrs Forster
asked:
Question
My question is about the timing of construction of Bayside Netball Centre.
Bayside City Council’s new web page on Bayside Netball Centre states: ‘Construction will
commence over the 2021/22 summer school holidays and be delivered by the Victorian
Schools Building Authority.’ It also provides a new site plan and illustrations of the buildings
and courts.
a) In December 2020 Bayside Council staff provided written confirmation that 'the
design/planning phase of the project will include an Environmental Impact
Assessment that will focus on the adjacent Heathland.’ Does this mean that the as
yet unfinished Environmental Impact Report for Bay Road Heathland Sanctuary will
be redundant when, or if, it is finally delivered?
The whole point of the Environmental Impact Assessment was to provide data to improve the
design and planning process. The current information appears to indicate in no uncertain
terms that the design/planning phase is already completed.
b) How is this to be reconciled with Council's environmental policies and promises?
Response from the CEO
The environmental impact assessment was delayed resulting from Covid-related orders and
the rainfall experienced following easing of these restrictions.
While the final design has only recently been completed, the design development was
founded on principles to protect flora and fauna including reduced mast height (12m) for
court lighting, ensuring minimal spill to the heathland and most significantly the siting of the
courts as far south and east as possible. The buffering provided by the vegetation located on
the School site, to the two courts closest to the sanctuary, will also assist to mitigate impact.
Following the community engagement process, significant changes were made to
operational hours, volume control to speakers improving residential amenity and address
known impacts to fauna, with consultants briefed regarding the location and associated
infrastructure. Any additional recommendations will be implemented where practicable. The
final report will be published via the project page when its available.
Page No. 8

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
3. Ms Caroline Lawton
Ms Caroline Lawton submitted a question regarding sites in Bayside that are covered by the
VPO3 and SLO, and Ms Lawton asked:
Question
Beaumaris Conservation Society would like to ask Council the following questions, these
questions are highly relevant in relation to the recent VCAT decision on 401 Beach Rd and 2
Point Ave.
In saying this, they relate to all sites in Bayside that are covered by the VPO3 and SLO.
Does a significant tree in the center of a block get trumped by the policy requirements of
provision of housing?
What is the definition of a "Significant" Tree?
Response from the CEO
There are two separate processes when considering the development of a site where there
is a significant tree located. The planning application will consider the relevant policies of the
Bayside Planning Scheme and a recommendation will be made. Should planning approval
be granted, then a separate application would need to be made to Council to remove the tree
from the Significant Tree Register. The tree could only be removed if permission to remove it
from the register was granted.
Some trees, through age, size, and rarity of planting or association with historical events
achieve a higher level of importance on private or public land. Under the National Trust
Australia (Victoria) significant tree rating, there are four categories used to define a
significant tree (registration criteria and significance ratings). These are scientific, social,
historic and aesthetic. Any application for inclusion on the register will need to meet these
criteria.
4. Mr George Reynolds
Mr George Reynolds submitted a question regarding Council’s comprehensive income
statement, and Mr Reynolds asked:
Question
Council has formally advised that an individual comprehensive income statement, for the
contribution of the General Rate is not prepared by Council. However, Part 3 s10(2)(c) of
Reg. 117/2020 requires that the "estimated amount to be raised by General rates", must be
stated. This figure may only be arrived at by summating the estimated expenditure in the
General Rate statement. It raises the question:
(a) Where, in the Comprehensive Income Statement and Notes is "the sum to be raised by
General Rates" correctly stated, AND
(b) Where in the Comprehensive Income Statement and Notes is "the sum to be raised by
the Waste Service Charge", correctly stated?
Response from the CEO
The Comprehensive Income Statement in the 2021–22 Budget and the 2019–20 Annual
Financial Statements discloses total rates revenue with the Notes to the Accounts disclosing
the General Rates and the Waste Services Charge. This is done in accordance with the
requirements of the reporting regulations.
Page No. 9

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
5. Mr George Reynolds
Mr George Reynolds submitted a further question regarding Council’s Annual Budget, and
Mr Reynolds asked:
Question
Council shows, in its approved Annual Budget, page 57, annual expenditure of Council Cash
of $71.726 million. Using Schedule 3, Definitions, in S.R. 117/2020, he only source of council
cash is the surplus generated in the Own-source Revenue statement (listed as "adjusted
underlying surplus")
(a) As the 2021-22 Budget does not show financial statements for Own-source Revenue,
where and how does Council find the sum of more than $71million from revenue
under its control, AND
(b) Where is the surplus rates and charges revenue reported, that does not qualify to be
under the control of Council, and must somehow be returned to the contributors.
Response from the CEO
The 2021–22 Budget has been prepared in accordance with the Reporting Regulations and
correctly identifies the four funding sources.
6. Mr Paul Langley
Mr Paul Langley submitted a question regarding the Bayside Netball Centre development,
and Mr Langley asked:
Question
The Victorian Department of Education and Training and the Bayside City Council are
completing a Community Joint Use Agreement for the Netball Centre development.
Clause 36.1 of the Community Joint Use Agreement states: The Community Partner must
obtain or procure all relevant planning permits and licences or approvals necessary for its
use of the facility and to carry out its obligations under this Agreement before
commencement of the Licence and must comply with any conditions contained within each
such permit, licence or approval.
Please advise when the nominated user will make an application for permit for use of the
Netball Centre?
Response from the CEO
This project is managed by the Victorian School Building Authority (VSBA), on Education
Department land and is exempt from a statutory town planning process
Page No. 10

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
7. Ms Sue Langley
Ms Sue Langley submitted a question regarding the Bayside Netball Centre development,
and Ms Langley asked:
Question
Relying on tree planting, noise limiters to PA and sirens and the words ‘reasonably
practicable’ as an opt out or questionable legal defense is indefensibly, how does Council
propose to ensure that the effect on noise sensitive areas such as nearby residential
premises comply with the new laws?
Response from the CEO
The measures identified in the February 2021 Council report have been assessed against
the revised standards to ensure compliance. Mitigation measures include:
• amplified system will be restricted (fixed) at a decibel level below AEP requirements
• reduction in operational hours agreed as confirmed at the Council meeting
• whistle selection
• location of the courts.
Page No. 11

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
7. Petitions to Council
7.1 PETITION TO DESIGNATE 7 WELL STREET, BRIGHTON TO BE PUBLIC
OPEN SPACE WITH CHILDREN'S PLAYGROUND FACILITIES
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/346032
It is recorded that Cr El Mouallem declared a general conflict of interest in this item as he
owns a property in close proximity to 7 Well Street. Cr El Mouallem left the meeting at
6:48pm prior to any discussion on this item.
Moved: Cr Evans OAM Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
That the petition be received and dealt with in conjunction with the report ‘Consideration of
7 Well Street, Brighton for public open space’ to be presented to the 21 December 2021
Council meeting.
CARRIED
It is recorded that Cr El Mouallem was not present in the meeting during debate or when the
vote was taken on the above item.
Page No. 12

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
It is recorded that Cr El Mouallem returned to the meeting at 6:50pm.
8. Minutes of Advisory Committees
8.1 RECORDS OF MEETINGS HELD UNDER THE AUSPICES OF COUNCIL
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/346030
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council notes the records of meeting/s held under the auspices of Council as required
by the Local Government Act 2020 and Council’s Governance Rules:
• 9 November 2021 Councillor Briefing.
CARRIED
Page No. 13

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
8.2 MINUTES OF THE BAYSIDE ARTS AND GALLERY ADVISORY
COMMITTEE MEETING HELD ON 27 OCTOBER 2021
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/343174
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council:
1. notes the minutes of the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee meeting held
on 27 October 2021
2. adopts the recommendation of the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee in
relation to the following matter (noting that the appointment of Chairperson of the
Committee has since been made at the 10 November Annual Meeting of Council):
Item 7.1 – Election of Chairperson
That the Bayside Arts and Gallery Advisory Committee recommends to Council that
Cr Sonia Castelli be appointed as Chairperson for the 2021–22 Council year.
CARRIED
Page No. 14

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
8.3 MINUTES OF THE DISABILITY ACCESS AND INCLUSION ADVISORY
COMMITTEE MEETING HELD ON 8 NOVEMBER 2021
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/346028
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor)
That Council:
1. notes the minutes of the Disability Access and Inclusion Advisory Committee meeting
held on 8 November 2021
2. adopts the recommendation of the Disability Access and Inclusion Advisory Committee
in relation to the following matter (noting that the appointment of Chairperson of the
Committee has since been made at the 10 November Annual Meeting of Council):
Item 7.2 – Election of Chairperson
That the Disability Access and Inclusion Advisory Committee recommends that
Council appoints Cr Clarke Martin as Chairperson of the Disability Access and
Inclusion Advisory Committee for the 2021/22 Council year (or until such a time as a
review of the format of the Committee occurs – whichever is sooner).
CARRIED
Page No. 15

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
9. Reports by Special Committees
There were no Reports by Special Committees submitted to the meeting.
10. Reports by the Organisation
REQUESTS TO BE HEARD:
The Mayor noted that temporary changes to the Council meeting procedures are in place with
regard to Chapter 2, Division 10 of Council’s Governance Rules (Individual Presentations),
whereby:
• in place of speaking in-person at a Council / Committee meeting, members of the
public may submit a written statement (maximum of four (4) A4 single pages) which
must be sent electronically, or delivered to Council's Corporate Centre, by 9:00am on
the day of the meeting
• written statements received after 9:00am on the day of the meeting will not be
considered by the meeting
• a person may only make a written statement to an Ordinary Meeting/Special
Committee Meeting in relation to an item listed in the agenda under Reports by the
Organisation, and even then not if the item is in the nature of a report summarising a
decision already made by another body; or if the report relates to a Tender Report
relating to the awarding of a contract
• in accordance with Chapter 2, Section 83(1) of Council’s Governance Rules 2020, any
statement which is derogatory, or defamatory of any Councillor, member of Council
staff, or member of the community may not be accepted
• where a person has formally made a written statement in relation to an item on the
agenda, the statement will be provided to all councillors in advance of the meeting
• written statements are not confidential and, following the closure for receipt of
statements, will be published (including first and last names only) on Council’s website
as an attachment to the Agenda for the relevant meeting
• written statements will not be read out at the meeting; however, the Chairperson will
advise the meeting of the number of statements received to each item.
The following individuals submitted written statements to the meeting:
Item 10.3 Dendy Street Beach - Erosion Mitigation Update )
1. Mr Andrew Monotti (on behalf of Brighton Bathing Box Association)
2. Mr Michael Caink
Item 10.12 2021-22 1st Quarter Performance Report
1. Mr George Reynolds (on behalf of Bayside Residents Group - Ratepayers
Victoria Inc.)
Page No. 16

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
10.1 ESTABLISHING A GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REDUCTION
TARGET FOR THE ENTIRE BAYSIDE COMMUNITY
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Environment
File No: PSF/21/36 – Doc No: DOC/21/346902
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Castelli
That Council:
1. adopts a community greenhouse gas emissions reduction target in response to
Action 1.7 of the Climate Emergency Action Plan of: reducing greenhouse gas
emissions in-line with Victorian Government set targets of 8 to 33% by 2025 and 45
to 50% by 2030; and achieving net zero emissions by 2050 or earlier
2. refers this item to the 2022–23 budget process for consideration of funding and
continues to investigate any external funding opportunities available
3. notes that a communications campaign will be developed to support the community
greenhouse gas emissions reduction target and how each sector of the community
can contribute to achieve the target.
4. actively explores how to bring together all of Council’s strategic work and policies
into a coherent framework
5. considers opportunities to work with community groups to pilot the practical
implementation of strategies to reduce community greenhouse gas emissions.
LOST
Moved: Cr Stitfold Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council:
1. adopts a community greenhouse gas emissions reduction target in response to Action
1.7 of the Climate Emergency Action Plan of: reducing greenhouse gas emissions by
75% below 2005 levels by 2030; and achieving net zero emissions by 2035 or earlier
2. refers this item to the 2022–23 budget process for consideration of funding and
continues to investigate any external funding opportunities available
3. notes that a communications campaign will be developed to support the community
greenhouse gas emissions reduction target and how each sector of the community can
contribute to achieve the target
4. explores the Regen Melbourne model based on ‘doughnut economics’ as a way to pull
together all of Council’s strategic work into a coherent framework
5. considers opportunities to work with community groups and businesses to pilot the
practical implementation of strategies to reduce community greenhouse gas emissions.
CARRIED
Page No. 17

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
10.2 ELSTERNWICK PARK NATURE RESERVE FUNDING AGREEMENT
WITH THE CITY OF PORT PHILLIP - UPDATE
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
File No: PSF/21/19 – Doc No: DOC/21/310315
It is recorded that Cr Samuel-King declared a general conflict of interest in this item given
her partner is a contractor involved with the Elsternwick Park Nature Reserve. Cr Samuel-
King left the Meeting at 7:30 pm prior to any discussion on this item.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
The Council notes the correspondence with the City of Port Phillip regarding the proposed
funding agreement to develop the Elsternwick Park Nature Reserve and seeks a meeting
between the Mayors and Chief Executive Officers of Bayside and Port Phillip in the first
quarter of 2022 to further discuss this issue.
CARRIED
It is recorded that Cr Samuel-King was not present in the meeting during debate or when the
vote was taken on the above item.
Page No. 18

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
It is recorded that Cr Samuel-King returned to the meeting at 7:38 pm.
10.3 DENDY STREET BEACH - EROSION MITIGATION UPDATE
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation & Wellbeing
File No: PSF/21/19 – Doc No: DOC/21/310303
It is recorded that Cr Castelli declared a general conflict of interest in this item given her
partner owns a bathing box at Dendy Street Beach. Cr Castelli left the meeting at 7:38 pm
prior to any discussion on this item.
It is recorded that Mr Andrew Monotti (on behalf of Brighton Bathing Box Association), and
Mr Michael Caink each submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor)
That Council:
1. endorses the short-term mitigation measures, specifically beach renourishment and
targeted sandbagging and allocates $245,000 in the 2021–22 budget to undertake
these works
2. endorses the use of sand from the adjacent, northern beach for the purposes of
beach renourishment, if approved by the Department of Environment, Land, Water
and Planning, if this is not approved then the sand will be sourced from a suitable
quarry
3. actively monitors the effectiveness of the beach renourishment and modify the
approach in the future if required
4. continues to protect the sand dunes and vegetation in the area
5. considers the allocation of funding for beach renourishment in subsequent Council
budgets while planning and approvals are sought for long term mitigation
measures
6. receives a report by the March 2022 Council meeting detailing the outcomes of
investigations into long-term mitigation options with one option being reef
restoration.
The Mover withdrew from the Motion
It is recorded that the mover, Cr Samuel-King withdrew the above motion, and the
Chairman called for a mover to the motion. Cr Evans moved the above motion and Cr El
Mouallem continued as the seconder to the motion.
Page No. 19

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
Moved: Cr Evans OAM Seconded: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor)
That Council:
1. endorses the short-term mitigation measures, specifically beach renourishment and
targeted sandbagging and allocates $245,000 in the 2021–22 budget to undertake
these works
2. endorses the use of sand from the adjacent, northern beach for the purposes of
beach renourishment, if approved by the Department of Environment, Land, Water
and Planning, if this is not approved then the sand will be sourced from a suitable
quarry
3. actively monitors the effectiveness of the beach renourishment and modify the
approach in the future if required
4. continues to protect the sand dunes and vegetation in the area
5. considers the allocation of funding for beach renourishment in subsequent Council
budgets while planning and approvals are sought for long term mitigation
measures
6. receives a report by the March 2022 Council meeting detailing the outcomes of
investigations into long-term mitigation options with one option being reef
restoration.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto (Mayor), Laurence Evans OAM and Hanna El
Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) (3)
AGAINST: Crs Clarke Martin, Jo Samuel-King MBBS and Fiona Stitfold (3)
The Mayor exercised his casting vote in favour of the Motion and it was:
CARRIED
It is recorded that Cr Castelli was not present in the meeting during debate or when the vote
was taken on the above item.
Page No. 20

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
It is recorded that Cr Castelli returned to the meeting at Councillor Castelli returned to the
Meeting at 8:01 pm.
10.4 SUBURBAN RAIL LOOP ADVOCACY ACTION PLAN AND PROJECT
UPDATE
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Transport and Sustainability
File No: PSF/21/36 – Doc No: DOC/21/344874
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council:
1. adopts the Suburban Rail Loop Advocacy (SRLA) Action Plan
2. receives submissions on the SRLA Environmental Effects Statement and Draft
Planning Scheme Amendment for consideration at the December Council meeting
3. continues to work collaboratively with the City of Whitehorse, City of Monash and City
of Kingston on advocacy of this project and engages with the City of Kingston on the
alternative station concept design developed with the intention to achieve an integrated
outcome that benefits the local community and future users of the Cheltenham
Suburban Rail Loop Station
4. notes that the Advocacy Action Plan is to be reviewed throughout the different stages
to ensure actions remain relevant for the life of the project.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto (Mayor), Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli, Jo
Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona Stitfold, Laurence Evans OAM and
Hanna El Mouallem (7)
AGAINST: Nil (0)
CARRIED
Page No. 21

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
10.5 UPDATE ON THE REVIEW OF CRITERIA FOR ASSESSING
DISCRETIONARY HEIGHT CONTROLS IN ACTIVITY CENTRES
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/347649
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council receives a report at or before its April 2022 meeting with the findings of the
review into the criteria for considering varying discretionary height controls in activity centres.
CARRIED
Page No. 22

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
10.6 SUSTAINABLE BUILDING AND INFRASTRUCTURE POLICY
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Environment
File No: PSF/21/36 – Doc No: DOC/21/258810
Moved: Cr El Mouallem (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council defers consideration of the Sustainable Building and Infrastructure Policy 2021
(Attachment 2 to this report) to the March 2022 Council meeting.
CARRIED
Page No. 23

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
10.7 ENVIRONMENTAL UPGRADE FINANCE
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Environment
File No: PSF/21/36 – Doc No: DOC/21/315914
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council:
1. resolves to provide support and proceed to enable Environmental Upgrade Finance
to be offered to local businesses
2. appoints Better Building Finance to establish, administer and support the delivery of
Environmental Upgrade Finance
3. delegates to the Chief Executive Office or his delegate the power to enter into an
Environmental Upgrade Agreement on behalf of the Council
4. delegates to the Chief Executive Office or his delegate the power to declare and levy
an Environmental Upgrade Charge
5. notes that Environmental Upgrade Finance is to be offered to local homeowners for
residential properties at a later date, once systems and processes to enable this
opportunity are fully developed
6. receives a further report at the November 2022 Council meeting with an update on
business use of the program and progress towards residents being able to access it.
CARRIED
Procedural Motion
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Castelli
That the meeting be adjourned for 5 minutes.
CARRIED
The meeting was adjourned for 5 minutes at 8:41pm.
Procedural Motion
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Martin
That the meeting be resumed.
CARRIED
The meeting was resumed at 8:46pm.
It is recorded that Cr Samuel-King was not present when the meeting resumed at 8:46pm.
Page No. 24

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
10.8 SUBMISSION TO THE DRAFT INNER SOUTH-EAST REGION LAND USE
FRAMEWORK PLAN
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/345524
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council endorses the officer submission in response to the ‘Draft Inner South East
Metro Land Use Framework Plan’ prepared by Department of Environment, Land, Water
and Planning’s (DELWP).
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.8 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Cr Samuel-King was not present when the vote was taken on the above block motion.
Page No. 25

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
10.9 OFFICER SUBMISSION TO INQUIRY INTO APARTMENT DESIGN
STANDARDS
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: FOL/21/166 – Doc No: DOC/21/347655
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council endorses the officer submission to the Inquiry into Apartment Design
Standards.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.9 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Cr Samuel-King was not present when the vote was taken on the above block motion.
Page No. 26

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
10.10 COMPLAINTS HANDLING POLICY 2021
Community and Customer Experience - Communications, Engagement and Customer
Experience
File No: PSF/21/33 – Doc No: DOC/21/339272
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council:
• notes the engagement findings in Attachment 1 to this report
• adopts the Complaints Handling Policy contained in Attachment 2 to this report.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.10 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Cr Samuel-King was not present when the vote was taken on the above block motion.
Page No. 27

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
10.11 REVISED COUNCILLOR CODE OF CONDUCT
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/347696
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council adopts the revised Councillor Code Conduct relating to the inclusion and
reference to the Safeguarding Children and Young People Code of Conduct.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.11 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Cr Samuel-King was not present when the vote was taken on the above block motion.
Page No. 28

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
It is recorded that Cr Samuel-King returned to the meeting at 8:47pm.
10.12 2021–22 1ST QUARTER PERFORMANCE REPORT (JULY–SEPTEMBER
2021)
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/347704
It is recorded that Mr George Reynolds (on behalf of Bayside Residents Group -
Ratepayers Victoria Inc.) submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Evans OAM
That Council notes the 2021–22 1st Quarter Performance Report for the period July to
September 2021.
CARRIED
Page No. 29

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
10.13 COUNCIL ACTION AWAITING REPORT
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/346031
Moved: Cr Castelli Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council notes the Council Action Awaiting Report.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.13 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Cr Samuel-King was not present when the vote was taken on the above block motion.
Page No. 30

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
11. Reports by Delegates
1. Association of Bayside Municipalities – Crs Fiona Stitfold and Clarke Martin reported
that the ABM will be conducting a Strategic Planning Day on 3 December 2021.
2. Metropolitan Transport Forum – Director Environment, Recreation & Infrastructure
attended the Forum held earlier in the month. The forum received several presentations
on bus routes and suburban rail loop.
3. Municipal Association of Victoria – The Mayor, Cr Alex del Porto indicated he
attended the MAV Induction meeting where new representatives were appointed to the
MAV.
4. Inner South Metropolitan Mayors’ Forum – The Mayor, Cr Alex del Porto indicated no
meeting has been held.
5. Metropolitan Local Government Waste Forum – Cr Clarke Martin indicated that the
Forum is due to meet earlier December.
6. South East Councils Climate Change Alliance – Crs Clarke Martin and Fiona Stitfold
indicated that the SECCA is due to meet in earlier December.
Moved: Cr Evans OAM Seconded: Cr Castelli
That the Reports by Delegates be received and noted.
CARRIED
12. Urgent Business
There were no items of Urgent Business submitted to the meeting.
Page No. 31

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
13. Notices of Motion
13.1 NOTICE OF MOTION - 317 - NOISY MINER PROJECT - RESTORING THE
BALANCE
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/347972
Procedural Motion
Moved: Cr Samuel-King Seconded: Cr Castelli
That Cr Samuel-King be granted leave of the meeting to amend her Notice of Motion.
CARRIED
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr El Mouallem
That a report be presented to Council in February 2022 detailing the benefits and
implications of pursuing opportunities to work in partnership with universities, other
government agencies and community groups to actively manage the Noisy Miner bird
population in Bayside.
CARRIED
Page No. 32

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 23 November 2021
14. Confidential Business
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Castelli
That pursuant to Section 66(2)(a) of the Local Government Act 2020 (the Act), the
Council resolves that so much of this meeting be closed to members of the public, as it
involves Council consideration of matters coming within some or all of the following
categories listed in Section 3(1) (confidential information) of such Act:
(a) Council business information
(b) security information
(c) land use planning information
(d) law enforcement information
(e) legal privileged information
(f) personal information
(g) private commercial information, being information provided by a business,
commercial or financial undertaking that—
(i) relates to trade secrets; or
(ii) if released, would unreasonably expose the business, commercial or financial
undertaking to disadvantage;
(h) confidential meeting information
(i) internal arbitration information
(j) Councillor Conduct Panel confidential information
(k) information prescribed by the regulations to be confidential information for the
purposes of this definition
(l) information that was confidential information for the purposes of section 77 of the
Local Government Act 1989.
CARRIED
Table of Contents
14.1 MINUTES OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S EMPLOYMENT MATTERS
ADVISORY COMMITTEE HELD ON 3 NOVEMBER 2021
(LGA 2020 Section 3(1)(f) personal information, being information which if released
would result in the unreasonable disclosure of information about any person or their
personal affairs.)
It is recorded that meeting was vacated to enable Council to consider the above listed items
in Confidential Business.
Following consideration of Confidential Business, the Mayor declared the meeting closed at
9:14pm.
Page No. 33

