Ordinary
Meeting of
Council
held remotely
and live-streamed via
Council’s website
Tuesday
26 October 2021
at 6:30pm
Minutes

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
PRESENT:
Chair: Cr Laurence Evans OAM (Mayor)
Councillors: Cr Sonia Castelli (Deputy Mayor)
Cr Alex del Porto
Cr Hanna El Mouallem
Cr Clarke Martin
Cr Jo Samuel-King MBBS
Cr Fiona Stitfold
Officers: Mick Cummins – Chief Executive Officer
Jill Colson – Director Corporate Services
Bryce Craggs – Director Community and Customer Experience
Matthew Cripps – Director City Planning and Amenity
Adam McSwain – Director Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure
Joan Andrews – Manager Community Services
Juliana Aya – Acting Manager Transport and Sustainability
Terry Callant – Manager Governance and Corporate Reporting
John Coates – Manager Amenity Protection
Fiona Farrand – Manager Development Services
Keryn Fisher – Manager Communications, Engagement and Customer
Experience
Kristy Green – Manager Customer, Libraries and Cultural Services
Anita Johnstone – Manager City Assets and Presentation
Jason Stubbs – Manager Commercial Services
Damien Van Trier – Manager Open Space, Recreation and Wellbeing
Tom Vercoe – Acting Manager Urban Strategy
Robert Lamb – Governance Officer
Page No. 2

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
Table of Contents
1. Prayer
2. Acknowledgement of Original Inhabitants
3. Apologies
4. Disclosure of any Conflict of Interest of any Councillor
5. Adoption and Confirmation of the minutes of previous meeting
6. Public Question Time
7. Petitions to Council
There were no petitions submitted to the meeting.
8. Minutes of Advisory Committees
8.1 Records of meetings held under the auspices of Council .......... 13
8.2 Minutes of the Disability Access and Inclusion Advisory Committee
meeting held on 13 September 2021 ........................................ 13
9. Reports by Special Committees
There were no Reports by Special Committees submitted to the meeting.
10. Reports by the Organisation
10.1 Development Plan Application for Former CSIRO Site in Highett
.................................................................................................. 16
10.2 Reimagining Billilla .................................................................... 21
10.3 Warm Water Pool - Update on discussions with commercial
provider. .................................................................................... 22
10.4 Climate Emergency Action Plan Update ................................... 23
10.5 Municipal Public Health and Wellbeing Plan & Action Plans 2021-
2025 .......................................................................................... 24
10.6 Wellbeing For All Ages and Abilities Strategy Progress Report on
Implementation – Year 4 ........................................................... 25
10.7 Bayside Healthy Ageing Reference Group ................................ 26
10.8 Bayside Local Economy Recovery Plan – Reactivation Initiatives
and Extended Financial Support for Small Businesses ............. 27
10.9 Kerbside Bin Collection Schedule Changes – Community
Engagement Findings Report .................................................... 28
10.10 Domestic Animal Management Plan – Annual progress report . 30
Page No. 3

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.11 Update on Undergrounding Powerlines ..................................... 31
10.12 Response to Notice of Motion – 316 – Pressure Cleaning of Major
Activity Centres ......................................................................... 32
10.13 Submission to Department of Justice and Community Safety -
Decriminalisation of Sex Work in Victoria .................................. 33
10.14 Draft Procurement Policy 2021 .................................................. 34
10.15 Acknowledgement of Country .................................................... 35
10.16 CEO Employment Matters - Implementing the requirements of the
Local Government Act 2020 ...................................................... 36
10.17 CEO's Employment Matters Advisory Committee - Appointment of
Independent Chairperson .......................................................... 37
10.18 Naming of Laneway at the rear of 1-19 Keith Street, Hampton East
.................................................................................................. 38
10.19 Proposed Sale of Land at 126 Carpenter Street, Brighton ........ 39
10.20 Proposed discontinuance and sale of road adjoining 25 Bay Road,
Sandringham ............................................................................. 40
10.21 CONTRACT CON/21/39 Construction of Tulip Street Basketball
Courts and Car Park .................................................................. 41
10.22 Council Action Awaiting Report ................................................. 42
11. Reports by Delegates
12. Urgent Business
13. Notices of Motion
Page No. 4

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
The Mayor declared the Council Meeting open at 6:30pm and noted that the meeting was
being held remotely via electronic media. The meeting was recorded and streamed live on the
internet.
The Mayor invited Cr Martin to read the prayer.
1. Prayer
Cr Martin read the prayer at the commencement of the meeting.
O God
Bless this City, Bayside,
Give us courage, strength and wisdom,
So that our deliberations,
May be for the good of all,
Amen
2. Acknowledgement of Original Inhabitants
The Mayor invited Cr El Mouallem to read the acknowledgement of the original inhabitants of
this land.
 We acknowledge that the traditional owners and custodians of this land, the
Kulin nation, and we pay our respects to their Elders, past, present and
emerging.
 They loved this land, they cared for it and considered themselves to be part of
it.
 We acknowledge that we have a responsibility to nurture the land, and sustain
it for future generations.
3. Apologies
There were no apologies submitted to the meeting.
4. Disclosure of any Conflict of Interest of any Councillor
Cr El Mouallem declared a material conflict of interest in Item 10.8 given his family business
is one of the 430 food businesses in Bayside that would benefit from the 50% reduction of
the applicable renewal fees for the 2022 renewal period.
Page No. 5

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
Procedural Motion
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Castelli
That Council:
1. considers the meeting to be adjourned for 10 minutes from the commencement of any
technical problem which prevents Council from livestreaming the meeting
2. adjourns the meeting to be reconvened on Wednesday 27 October 2021 at 4.00pm via
livestreaming on Council’s website, in the event livestreaming cannot be resumed
within 30 minutes from the commencement of the technical problem which prevents
livestreaming on Council’s website.
CARRIED
5. Adoption and Confirmation of the minutes of previous meeting
5.1 Confirmation of the Minutes of the Bayside City Council meeting held on 14
September 2021.
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
That the minutes of the Bayside City Council meeting held on 14 September 2021, as
previously circulated, be confirmed as an accurate record of proceedings.
CARRIED
5.2 Confirmation of the Minutes of the Special meeting of Bayside City Council held on 21
September 2021.
Moved: Cr Stitfold Seconded: Cr Castelli (Deputy
Mayor)
That the minutes of the Special meeting of Bayside City Council held on 21
September 2021, as previously circulated, be confirmed as an accurate record of
proceedings.
CARRIED
5.3 Confirmation of the Minutes of the Special meeting of Bayside City Council held on 19
October 2021.
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Martin
That the minutes of the Special meeting of Bayside City Council held on 19 October
2021, as previously circulated, be confirmed as an accurate record of proceedings.
CARRIED
Page No. 6

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
6. Public Question Time
In accordance with Chapter 2, Section 57 of Council’s Governance Rules, 11 public
questions were submitted to the Meeting. In accordance with the resolution at the June 2021
Ordinary Meeting of Council, temporary meeting procedures with regard to public question
time are in place:
• All questions received and responses are read out at the meeting within the allotted 15
minute timeframe for public question time.
• All questions and responses read out will be recorded in the minutes.
• A written response will be provided to all questions received.
1. Mr Chris Sutton
Mr Chris Sutton submitted a question regarding light masts at the Beaumaris Reserve, and Mr
Sutton asked:
Question
In January 2021 Council sent Beaumaris residents a leaflet stating one of the four light masts
at the Beaumaris Reserve would be relocated to accommodate the new sports pavilion. In
follow up to my unanswered enquiry acknowledged as received by Council on 1 July 2021,
why did council install a new light mast taller than the existing light mast height, a height agreed
with neighbouring residents after extensive consultation, and what was the total cost including
the purchase, delivery and installation of a new mast and lights and the removal and disposal
of the existing mast and lights compared to the cost of relocating the existing light mast.
Response from the CEO
A previous sportsground lighting pole was required to be relocated to deliver the new
sportsground pavilion at Beaumaris Reserve. In order to maintain the required Australian
Standard lighting lux level for the purposes of football (soccer) training, a new 30 metre high
pole was required to be installed. Council must adhere to the relevant Australian Standards
governing sportsground lighting. The total cost to replace the light pole and affix with energy
efficient LED light fittings was $67,400.
2. Mr Chris Sutton
Mr Chris Sutton submitted a question regarding compliance with the Building Regulations, and
Mr Sutton asked:
Question
a) What enforcement powers does Bayside Council have to ensure new single dwellings
comply with the Building Regulations requiring buildings must not occupy more of the
allotment than the Bayside neighbourhood residential zone site coverage requirement
of 50% and
b) What actions does Bayside Council undertake to ensure that all new single dwellings
comply with this legal requirement.
Page No. 7

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
Response from the CEO
a) The requirement for site coverage is covered by the Building Regulations 2018,
Regulation 76. It states in part that buildings must not occupy more than (50% -
Bayside variation), of an allotment. It further notes that a report and consent, R&C
(special siting dispensation) may be sought from Council ‘to an application for a
building permit’ in relation to a design that does not comply with this regulation. In
other words, should a building permit be required for a new dwelling and/or garage, or
for an addition or alteration to a dwelling and/or garage, the maximum site coverage
must be considered.
b) It is the responsibility of the relevant Building Surveyor when assessing and issuing
building permits to ensure that this regulation is complied with – or a R&C sought. In
most instances, building permits are issued by the private sector; however, should
Council issue a building permit the same provisions would apply.
3. Mrs Alianora Smith
Mrs Alianora Smith submitted a question regarding the development plan application for the
former CSIRO site in Highett, and Mrs Smith asked:
Question
What considerations relating to “Site Context Analysis Constraints; Sensitive Residential
Interface” at North end of Site, has council implemented?
Response from the CEO
Council officers have undertaken a detailed assessment of each aspect of the Development
Plan application. This has included an assessment of the application against the relevant
planning controls that apply to the site, and how this property interfaces with land adjoining the
site.
The Development Plan Overlay Schedule 2 provides for the taller built form on the site to be
located towards the northern portion of the site. The setbacks provided are considered to
provide an appropriate outcome.
4. Mrs Alianora Smith
Mrs Alianora Smith submitted a second question regarding the development plan application
for the former CSIRO site in Highett, and Mrs Smith asked:
Question
How will proximity residents be provided with timely construction processes and same
residents’ ability to contact relevant Contractors, when concerns arise during construction?
Response from the CEO
Once a Development Plan has been approved for this site, and planning permits begin to be
issued, a comprehensive Construction Management Plan will be prepared that will ensure the
impacts of construction on surrounding areas will be appropriately managed.
Page No. 8

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
5. Mr Elliot Rosen
Mr Elliot Rosen submitted a question regarding the development plan application for the former
CSIRO site in Highett, and Mr Rosen asked:
Question
Is there a reason why Bayside City Council has ignored the Highett Structure Plan - Updated
September 2018? The document, which is only 3 years old, outlined a maximum 5-story height
limit for any prospective former CSIRO site development (page 18).
Response from the CEO
The Highett Structure Plan 2018 does not directly apply to this site as the Structure Plan was
prepared when the site was still owned by the Federal Government and sat outside the Bayside
Planning Scheme. When the land was sold, the Minister for Planning set the controls that apply
to the site: Residential Growth Zone – Schedule 3 (RGZ3) and the Development Plan Overlay
– Schedule 2 (DPO2).
Whilst the Structure Plan provides guidance in relation to the outcomes at this site, this formed
the basis of Council’s advocacy to the State Government; however, ultimately the Minister for
Planning made the final decision in relation to the controls that do apply to the site.
Amendment C162bays, which implements the Highett Structure Plan 2018 into the Bayside
Planning Scheme, is currently with the Minister for Planning awaiting a decision and as such
has limited weight in decision making.
6. Mr Greg Hewett
Mr Greg Hewett submitted a question regarding the development plan application for the
former CSIRO site in Highett, and Mr Hewett asked:
Question
I support the development but, there is a Primary Pedestrian path shown on the Overall
Development Plan (ODP) item 3.5.5 Pedestrian Circulation: figure 15 . As no right of access
exists across the commercial property between the area designated as Reserve for Open
Space to Bay Road,
a) how do the proponents of the development propose to give effect to the pedestrian
access shown on the ODP through the Reserve to Bay Road,
b) are Council in negotiations with the Owners Corporation who control the common
property ?
Response from the CEO
Through the development of land to the south of the conservation reserve, Council negotiated
the creation of a carriageway easement to facilitate access to the conservation reserve from
Bay Road. This path has been constructed and exists at the site, awaiting connection once the
conservation reserve has been transferred into public ownership.
Page No. 9

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
7. Mr Kenneth McBriar
Mr Kenneth McBriar submitted a question regarding Council’s kerbside bin collection schedule
changes, and Mr McBriar asked:
Question
Why are you not going with the majority response? Our current rubbish bins are too small even
for two people in apartment.
Response from the CEO
Council acknowledges that 47% of survey respondents reported they had concerns with the
change. These concerns ranged from residents whose bin is already at capacity, to other
residents who think the change should happen sooner.
Recent bin audits show that 18% of general waste bin contents is recycling that should be in
the blue bin whilst a further 36% is food waste and can go into the food and green waste bin.
An additional 10% is made up of soft plastics that can be recycled. This can add 64% more
capacity to your general waste bin. We want to encourage all Bayside households to reduce
the amount of waste they send to landfill by correctly taking advantage of their recycling and
food and green waste bins.
8. Mr Ian Robinson
Mr Ian Robinson submitted 3 questions; however, in accordance with Council’s Governance
Rules, a maximum of 2 questions per individual is permitted, Therefore, a response will be
provided to the first 2 questions only. Mr Robinson’s first question is regarding the development
plan application for the former CSIRO site in Highett, and Mr Robinson asked:
Question
It is noted in the recommendation to the council that "the site is expected to provide
approximately 20% of the forecast growth from 2021 to 2031" in Bayside. Regarding the
estimations for population growth,
a) when were these estimations made, and
b) has this factored in the current pandemic, net Victorian migration, and overall impact
on price and rental costs impacts on inner city units?
Response from the CEO
The City of Bayside is expected to grow by an additional 9,706 people between 2021 and 2031.
There are an additional forecast 4,619 dwellings to be constructed across Bayside during that
same period. The construction of approximately 1,000 dwellings in this location represents
approximately 22% of the forecast population growth. These projections were made pre-Covid.
Page No. 10

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
9. Mr Ian Robinson
Mr Robinson’s second question is also regarding the development plan application for the
former CSIRO site in Highett, and Mr Robinson asked:
Question
Has population growth of the area near Sir William Fry reserve on the Nepean Highway on the
Kingston City Council side of Highett been factored into the estimations of population growth
of the area?
Response from the CEO
Council is responsible for planning for land within the City of Bayside and the forecast
population and housing growth relate only to land within the City of Bayside. Council has had
regard through the preparation of the Highett Structure Plan 2018 as to what is occurring in
the wider locality.
10. Ms Elizabeth Allan
Ms Elizabeth Allan submitted a question regarding the development plan application for the
former CSIRO site in Highett, and Ms Allan asked:
Question
As stated above Sunkin were aware of the condition of the Highett Grassy Woodlands
protection when purchasing the property. My question is:
a) Why is the proposed development by Sunkin allowed to override the needs of a
protected area?
b) What actions will be taken by Bayside Council to protect this sensitive and unique
indigenous flora for Bayside residents and all of Victorians?
Response from the CEO
The application before Council is currently under assessment and no decision has yet been
made. The grassy woodlands site is currently private property and has not yet been transferred
into public ownership, which will only occur once a boundary between the future public and
private land has been established.
Council will be preparing a masterplan to guide the future outcomes on the conservation
reserve site. This will include appropriate measures to protect the site from impacts of the
development of the rest of the site.
11. Mr George Reynolds
Mr George Reynolds submitted a question regarding Written Statements submitted to the 19
October Special Meeting of Council, and Mr Reynolds asked:
Question
In relation to agenda item 5.3, approval of Minutes of meeting - the record showing written
statements appears to be missing. Is this omission in compliance with the Public Transparency
Policy (July 2020)?
Page No. 11

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
Response from the CEO
The written statement submitted by Mr Reynolds to the 19 October 2021 Special Meeting of
Council was deemed to be offensive and derogatory in accordance with Section 62 (9) of the
meeting procedures to Council’s Governance Rules which state that ‘any statement which is
derogatory, or defamatory of any Councillor, member of Council staff, or member of the
community may be redacted or not accepted by the Chief executive Officer or their delegate’.
The written statement was however provided to Councillors, noted before consideration of the
item and recorded in the Minutes. There were no other written statements received in relation
to the meeting.
There is no requirement in Council’s Public Transparency Policy for Council to include the
publishing of written statements.
Page No. 12

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
7. Petitions to Council
There were no petitions submitted to the meeting.
8. Minutes of Advisory Committees
8.1 RECORDS OF MEETINGS HELD UNDER THE AUSPICES OF COUNCIL
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/317449
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council notes the records of meetings held under the auspices of Council as required
by the Local Government Act 2020 and Council’s Governance Rules:
• 5 October 2021 Strategic Issues Discussion
• 5 October 2021 Councillor Briefing
• 12 October 2021 Councillor Briefing.
CARRIED
8.2 MINUTES OF THE DISABILITY ACCESS AND INCLUSION ADVISORY
COMMITTEE MEETING HELD ON 13 SEPTEMBER 2021
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/287631
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr El Mouallem
That Council notes the minutes of the Disability Access and Inclusion Advisory Committee
meeting held on 13 September 2021.
CARRIED
Page No. 13

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
9. Reports by Special Committees
There were no Reports by Special Committees submitted to the meeting.
10. Reports by the Organisation
The Mayor noted that temporary changes to the Council meeting procedures are in place with
regard to Chapter 2, Division 10 of Council’s Governance Rules (Individual Presentations),
whereby:
• in place of speaking in-person at a Council / Committee meeting, members of the
public may submit a written statement (maximum of four (4) A4 single pages) which
must be sent electronically, or delivered to Council's Corporate Centre, by 9:00am on
the day of the meeting
• written statements received after 9:00am on the day of the meeting will not be
considered by the meeting
• a person may only make a written statement to an Ordinary Meeting/Special
Committee Meeting in relation to an item listed in the agenda under Reports by the
Organisation, and even then not if the item is in the nature of a report summarising a
decision already made by another body; or if the report relates to a Tender Report
relating to the awarding of a contract
• in accordance with Chapter 2, Section 83(1) of Council’s Governance Rules 2020, any
statement which is derogatory, or defamatory of any Councillor, member of Council
staff, or member of the community may not be accepted
• where a person has formally made a written statement in relation to an item on the
agenda, the statement will be provided to all councillors in advance of the meeting
• written statements are not confidential and, following the closure for receipt of
statements, will be published (including first and last names only) on Council’s website
as an attachment to the Agenda for the relevant meeting
• written statements will not be read out at the meeting; however, the Chairperson will
advise the meeting of the number of statements received to each item.
The following individuals submitted written statements to the meeting:
Item 10.1 Development Plan Application for Former CSIRO Site in Highett
1. Mr Stephen White
2. Mr Lloyd Collins (on behalf of Sunkin)
3. Ms Elizabeth Allan
4. Mr Derek Screen (on behalf of Pennydale Residents Action Group Inc.)
5. Ms Angela Burr
6. Mrs Helen Rayment
7. Mr Andrew Loucaides
8. Ms Anita Williams (on behalf of Chandos Bay Pty Ltd)
9. Mr Rodney Nieuwenhuizen
Page No. 14

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10. Ms Danielle McNair
11. Ms Chisholm Sophie
12. Mrs Caroline & Mr David Robinson
13. Mrs Karen & Mr Pat Di Nicolantonio
14. Mrs Margaret Walker
15. Mrs Courtney DeCesare
16. Mr Fraser Martin
17. Ms Chloe & Mr Ben McDougall
Item 10.2 Reimagining Billilla
1. Mr Eli Lebovits (on behalf of Yesodei HaTorah College)
Item 10.11 Update on Undergrounding Powerlines
1. Ms Caroline Lawton (on behalf of Beaumaris Conservation Society)
Page No. 15

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.1 DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPLICATION FOR FORMER CSIRO SITE IN
HIGHETT
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/313568
It is recorded that Mr Stephen White, Mr Lloyd Collins (on behalf of Sunkin), Ms Elizabeth
Allan, Mr Derek Screen (on behalf of Pennydale Residents Action Group Inc.), Ms Angela
Burr, Mrs Helen Rayment, Mr Andrew Loucaides, Ms Anita Williams (on behalf of Chandos
Bay Pty Ltd), Mr Rodney Nieuwenhuizen, Ms Danielle McNair, Ms Chisholm Sophie, Mrs
Caroline & Mr David Robinson, Mrs Karen & Mr Pat Di Nicolantonio, Mrs Margaret Walker,
Mrs Courtney DeCesare, Mr Fraser Martin, and Ms Chloe & Mr Ben McDougall each
submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr del Porto
A) That Council approves the Development Plan under the provisions of the Bayside
Planning Scheme for the land known and described as 37 Graham Road, Highett
subject to the following conditions:
1. A revised Development Plan must be submitted and approved to the satisfaction
of the Responsible Authority, generally in accordance with the report prepared by
CHC Architects dated 2 August 2021, but modified to include:
a) changes in building height generally in accordance with the Masterplan
Proposed Heights, October 2021 V2, prepared by CHC Architects, showing:
i. reduction in height of buildings D2, H and E to a maximum of 6 storeys
ii. increase in setback to building L, with levels 4-7 setback 18 metres from
the western site boundary
iii. increase in setback to building A, with level 4 setback 20 metres from
the western site boundary
iv. delete level 5 from Building A
v. reconfiguration of building B to further reduce the shadow impacts on
the proposed conservation reserve
b) any changes to the Middleton Street access, as required by the modified
Traffic Impact Assessment at condition 2.
2. A revised Traffic Impact Assessment must be submitted and approved to the
satisfaction of the Responsible Authority, generally in accordance with the report
prepared by Stantec Australia, dated 30 July 2021, but modified to include:
a) assessment of the impact of one-way access to Middleton Road on
surrounding street networks, and/or pedestrian/cycle and emergency vehicle
access only, to the satisfaction of the Department of Transport and the
Responsible Authority. If approved, the Development Plan required at
condition 1b to be updated to show the amended configuration
b) update of Table 7.3 with revised yield and carparking allocation, providing for
a provision of 1:1 carparks for 1 bedroom apartments as part of the
Development Plan, subject to further assessment at the permit application
stage and having regard to ESD objectives and market preferences.
Page No. 16

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
3. A revised Sustainability Strategy Development Plan must be submitted to and
approved to the satisfaction of the Responsible Authority, generally in accordance
with the submitted Report prepared by Stantec dated 2 August 2021, but modified
to include the design response of excluding gas infrastructure and supply from the
site, and achieving as close to net zero emissions as possible.
4. A revised Landscape Design Report must be submitted to and approved to the
satisfaction of the Responsible Authority, generally in accordance with the
submitted Report prepared by Tract Consultants dated 30 July August 2021, but
modified as follows:
a) remove the palm trees from the public realm locations (excluding internal
courtyards and communal open space)
b) Highett Grassy Woodland species to be introduced at the southern interface,
generally in accordance with the sketch prepared by Tract, dated 28th
September 2021
c) achieve at least 85% indigenous planting in public realm locations with a
focus on Highett Grassy Woodland species.
5. The developer is to establish a community representative group to create clear
communications and engagement with community leaders in the area. The terms
of reference for the group must be prepared to the satisfaction of the responsible
authority.
Department of Transport Conditions
6. Updates to the Development Plan as follows:
a) reference to Bay Road/Highett Road intersection in Section 6.3 on page 90
updated to refer to “Bay Road/Graham Road”.
b) the following is to be added to Section 6.3:
1. The Traffic Impact Assessment Report (Revision C dated 30/07/2021) is to
be amended to address the below matters, to the satisfaction of the Head,
Transport for Victoria:
i. There is an existing issue with long queue lengths at the Bay
Road/Reserve Road intersection. The proposed signals will result in
longer queues and associated delays at the Bay Road/Reserve Road
intersection because of its proximity to the existing signals at Bay
Road/Reserve Road intersection. In addition, queues on Bay Road
would extend back to the existing Pedestrian Operated Signals on Bay
Road near Jack Road. It is required that:
• the three signals (being existing signals at Bay Road/Reserve
Road intersection, existing Pedestrian Operated Signals at Bay
Road near Jack Road, and the proposed signals at Bay Road/
Graham Road) to be coordinated, at 90 second cycle time.
These works must be at no cost to and to the satisfaction of the
Head, Transport for Victoria
• queue detectors to be installed on the departure side of Reserve
Road for eastbound traffic, and at the Pedestrian Operated
Signals near Jack Road for westbound traffic
• additional SIDRA analysis to be undertaken using a 90-second
cycle time to evaluate and determine the operational outputs at
Bay Road/Reserve Road and network impacts. Mitigating works
may be required.
Page No. 17

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
ii. The submitted signal concept layout plan (Drawing no. V181370-20-
01 dated 30/07/2021) is considered generally acceptable considering
the existing site constraints. However, the road reserve at the
northeast corner of the intersection is very tight, which leads to
concerns as to whether an appropriate footpath and pram crossing
will physically fit into the available space. This matter is to be carefully
investigated, and the subsequent Functional Layout Plan is required
to show how the footpath and pram crossing could work and being
DDA compliant.
iii. The Functional Layout Plan should also show the existing electric
pole on the south side of Bay Road, to the east of proposed signals at
Bay Road/Graham Road to be relocated or undergrounded
(preferred) due to the proposed road widening.
2. Road Safety Audits will be required to be conducted at both functional and
detail design review stages.
3. The amended Traffic Impact Assessment Report is to form part of a permit
application for Stage 1 of the proposed development.
4. Mitigating works to the Bay Road/Graham Road intersection must be in
accordance with the amended Traffic Impact Assessment Report
accompanying Stage 1 Planning Permit and completed at no cost to and to
the satisfaction of the Head, Transport for Victoria.
5. Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Head, Transport for Victoria, the
mitigating roadworks must be completed prior to the occupation of any
stage of the development.
6. The Head, Transport for Victoria’s approval must also be sought to install
new traffic signals on the network, pursuant to Part 2 of the Road Safety
(Traffic Management) Regulations 2019.
Melbourne Water Conditions
7. Storm Water Management for the development plan must be as per Storm Water
Management Plan Prepared By: Peter Munzel; Ref: 29150-2; Dated 5/03/2021;
Revision: E.
8. Surface level of parkland area and internal roads in the DP (in particular, along
overland flow path) must be set as per assumptions made in hydraulic modelling
by Engeny. (Flood Impact Assessment, dated: 04/02/2021 by Engeny (Scott
Dunn) & Memorandum by Engeny for On-site Detention and Existing/Developed
Flows, dated 5 February 2021). Accordingly, Functional Design plans must form
part of a separate application to Melbourne Water for proposed re-alignment of
Melbourne Water’s existing asset.
9. Runoff from the site must be treated to comply with the criteria in the Urban Storm
water Best Practice Environmental Management Guidelines regarding pollutant
removal. Acceptable methods for the design of treatment measures include the
storm water treatment modelling software package ‘Model for Urban Stormwater
Improvement Conceptualisation’ (MUSIC), or the ‘Water Sensitive Urban Design
Engineering Procedures Manual’ available at
http://www.melbournewater.com.au/wsud which provides the procedure for design
of various treatment measures.
10. Finished ground floor levels of all proposed dwellings/ buildings of the
Development Plan must be set no lower than 300mm above the applicable flood
Page No. 18

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
level at the location as per Melbourne Water’s flood level information or 300mm
above top of the kerb of internal roadways whichever is higher.
11. Design and construction of the re-aligned drain must be carried out by a
Melbourne Water approved engineering company who is experienced with
pipeline design and construction.
12. Prior to commencement of drainage construction works, the structural condition
assessment of the existing drain to be realigned, including how interfaces are
going to be achieved and asset ownership must be confirmed to Melbourne
Water.
13. Design of realigned drain is to be in accordance with Melbourne Water’s standard
drawings under the surveillance of Melbourne Water’s Developer Project Works
Team – detailed engineering plans of the drain must be approved by Melbourne
Water’s Developer Project Works Team through the Works Offer agreement
process. Please note that there should be sufficient manholes at appropriate
locations.
14. Creation of an easement of a minimum 6.0m width is required to accommodate
the re-aligned pipe and for transition structures with the pipe and structures
centrally located within the easement. This easement must be clearly shown in
the Development Plan.
15. A setback of 2.3m must be shown for any permanent structures or deep footings
from the outside edge of the new re-aligned pipe.
16. No permanent structures must be placed within the easement. Any temporary
structures (e.g. playground equipment) within the easement or lateral clearance
zone must meet temporary structure footings and setback requirements. A
separate Build Over Application for assessment and approval of any proposed
works over and near Melbourne Water’s asset and easement must be part of
future development applications. (Fees and special conditions will apply).
17. Prior to commencement of works, in accordance with the statutory powers of
Melbourne Water Corporation, the Owner must enter into and comply with an
Agreement with Melbourne Water Corporation for the Works on the Asset and
other matters. (On-line application for a ‘Works Offer’ must be made– Note: fees,
bonds and conditions will apply) This includes the drain re-alignment works which
are subject to Melbourne Water’s design requirements including QA certification.
18. Prior to commencement of works on the drain re-alignment, a separate application
must be made to Melbourne Water’s Asset Services Team to conduct works on
Melbourne Water's asset. A Permit to Work can only be issued to contractors who
have undertaken Melbourne Water’s permit recipient training. This requirement
must be included as part of the general notes on the final drawings. Please
contact Melbourne Water’s Customer Service Centre on 131 722 (with details of
the contractor) to arrange training providing at least 28 days’ notice. A separate
on-line application must be submitted to Melbourne Water for any new storm
water connection to Melbourne Water’s asset.
Additional actions
B) That Council undertakes a review of the traffic and transport actions of the Highett
Structure Plan in response to the impacts arising from the development of the former
CSIRO site, the future Suburban Rail Loop station and precinct and other recent
developments.
C) That this review is considered as part of the 2022–23 budget
considerations/allocations.
Page No. 19

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto, Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli (Deputy
Mayor), Jo Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona Stitfold and Laurence
Evans OAM (Mayor) (6)
AGAINST: Cr Hanna El Mouallem (1)
CARRIED
Page No. 20

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.2 REIMAGINING BILLILLA
Community and Customer Experience - Customer & Cultural Services
File No: FOL/21/188 – Doc No: DOC/21/316863
It is recorded that Mr Eli Lebovits (on behalf of Yesodei HaTorah College) submitted a
written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr El Mouallem
That Council:
1. approves the Billilla Homestead community engagement plan to be implemented in
2021 (see Attachment 3)
2. endorses a public event to be held on the grounds of Billilla for the community in
early 2022 as part of the Engagement Plan (pending any COVID restrictions)
3. authorises the Director of Corporate Services to negotiate to extend the Yesodei
HaTorah College lease to terminate on or before 31 March 2022.
CARRIED
Page No. 21

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.3 WARM WATER POOL - UPDATE ON DISCUSSIONS WITH
COMMERCIAL PROVIDER.
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation & Wellbeing
File No: PSF/21/19 – Doc No: DOC/21/307387
Moved: Cr Samuel-King MBBS Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council receives a report at the 21 December 2021 Council meeting detailing the
findings of discussions with commercial providers regarding a Warm Water Pool within the
municipality.
CARRIED
Page No. 22

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.4 CLIMATE EMERGENCY ACTION PLAN UPDATE
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Environment
File No: PSF/21/36 – Doc No: DOC/21/258813
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr Stitfold
That Council:
1. notes the actions undertaken in the first year to implement the Climate Emergency Action
Plan as shown in Attachment 2 and the new actions to be added and changes proposed
to the revised Climate Emergency Action Plan as shown in Attachment 3
2. receives a further report in the first quarter of the 2022–23 financial year detailing
progress on implementation of the Climate Emergency Action Plan and updates for the
revised Climate Emergency Action Plan.
CARRIED
Page No. 23

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.5 MUNICIPAL PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELLBEING PLAN & ACTION
PLANS 2021-2025
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation & Wellbeing
File No: PSF/21/19 – Doc No: DOC/21/283483
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr El Mouallem
That Council:
1. adopts the Municipal Public Health and Wellbeing Plan 2021–2025 (the Plan) and
its associated Action Plans
i. Health and Wellbeing Action Plan
ii. Disability Action Plan
2. thanks community stakeholders and local health service providers that have
provided feedback to and guided the development of the Plan and associated Action
Plans, particularly the Disability Access and Inclusion Advisory Committee and its
work on the development of the Disability Action Plan
3. authorises the Director Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure to approve
annual updates for the Action Plans
4. rescinds the Alcohol Harm Minimisation Policy, as its content is now incorporated
into the Municipal Public Health and Wellbeing Plan.
CARRIED
Page No. 24

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.6 WELLBEING FOR ALL AGES AND ABILITIES STRATEGY PROGRESS
REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION – YEAR 4
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Open Space, Recreation & Wellbeing
File No: PSF/21/19 – Doc No: DOC/21/252808
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr El Mouallem
That Council notes the annual review of the Wellbeing for All Ages and Abilities Strategy
2017–2021 and Action Plans for October 2020 to October 2021.
CARRIED
Page No. 25

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.7 BAYSIDE HEALTHY AGEING REFERENCE GROUP
Community and Customer Experience - Community Services
File No: PSF/21/32 – Doc No: DOC/21/299039
Moved: Cr El Mouallem Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. defers seeking nominations for a new Bayside Healthy Reference Group until 2022
2. endorses extending the term for members of the current Bayside Healthy Reference
Group for 12 months until December 2022.
CARRIED
Page No. 26

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.8 BAYSIDE LOCAL ECONOMY RECOVERY PLAN – REACTIVATION
INITIATIVES AND EXTENDED FINANCIAL SUPPORT FOR SMALL
BUSINESSES
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/316667
It is recorded that Cr El Mouallem declared a Material Conflict of Interest in this item given
the reduction in fees will benefit a business that Cr El Mouallem has an interest in.
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. acknowledges and welcomes the Victorian State Government COVIDSafe Outdoor
Activation Fund grant of $575K which will be utilised to support and expand Stage 3
of the Bayside Local Economy Recovery Plan
2. notes the initiatives in Stage 3 of the Bayside Local Economy Recovery Plan
including:
• continuing the rollout of COVIDSafe trading information to local businesses
• working with local traders’ associations and service groups to undertake festive
community-based events in activity centers
• conducting the previously deferred Taste of Bayside and Phantasmagoria
events
• encouraging events and activations during the festive period with the
installation of Christmas decorations and conducting the “Shops on Show
competition”
• continuing with the social media promotion campaigns of activity centers
• recommencing the Bayside Business Network program in March 2022
3. renews for a further two-year term the memberships of current Bayside Tourism
Network members
4. as a form of assistance to registered food and public health businesses impacted
by the pandemic, reduces the renewal fees for 2021–22 by 50%
5. as a form of assistance to local hospitality businesses and those undertaking street
trading, waives the residual 50% of fees applicable to footpath trading for the period
February 2022 to August 2022
6. recommences the Built Environment Awards in February 2022 with a call for entries
with an awards ceremony to be held in late 2022
7. considering the possible structural changes to the local economy, postpones the
commencement of a comprehensive Economic Development and Tourism Strategy
to the second half of the 2022–23 financial year.
CARRIED
Page No. 27

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.9 KERBSIDE BIN COLLECTION SCHEDULE CHANGES – COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT FINDINGS REPORT
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - Sustainability and Transport
File No: PSF/21/36 – Doc No: DOC/21/293863
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council implements the following actions in respect of kerbside bin collection:
1. Provide additional support to the following eligible groups:
• large households with six or more members
• households with two or more children in nappies
• households with one or more people living with a chronic illness or disability
• households with a carer of someone living with a chronic illness or disability.
2. Additional support consists of the below options:
• the option to upsize to a 140L (already available) or a 240L general waste bin
(depending on current bin size)
• an additional bin free of charge, an 80L, 140L, or 240L
• where the 80L size is the most suitable due to a person’s ability to manoeuvre the
bin, offer up to three 80L sized general waste bins.
3. Eligibility requirements:
To be eligible for any one of the above arrangements, residents would need to provide
evidence in the form of any* of the following:
• for a family of six or more, a Medicare card or similar
• a lease, proving long-term tenancy (12 months +)
• drivers license
• for households with six or more but not a family with a Medicare card available, a
signed Council declaration form
• information from Council’s Maternal Child Health service/recommendation from a
Maternal Child Health Nurse
• a letter from a GP outlining their need for additional waste capacity – template to
be provided for those residents
• a recommendation from a Council Community Care Worker
*all must provide proof of address.
4. Businesses in Council’s main activity centres to continue to receive a weekly collection
of their general waste bins. The main activity centres are as follows:
• Beaumaris Concourse, Beaumaris
• Black Rock Village
• Church Street, Brighton
Page No. 28

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
• Hampton Street, Hampton
• Martin Street, Brighton
• Sandringham Village
5. Households not eligible for any of the above who believe they require additional waste
capacity are able to request an additional bin at an additional cost added to their Rates.
This option is already available to all residents using Council’s kerbside collection
services, with some households already taking up this option.
6. Residents that have been deemed eligible will be reviewed every two years.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto, Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli (Deputy
Mayor), Jo Samuel-King MBBS, Fiona Stitfold and Laurence
Evans OAM (Mayor) (6)
AGAINST: Cr Hanna El Mouallem (1)
CARRIED
Page No. 29

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.10 DOMESTIC ANIMAL MANAGEMENT PLAN – ANNUAL PROGRESS
REPORT
City Planning and Amenity - Amenity Protection
File No: PSF/21/29 – Doc No: DOC/21/317205
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. notes the annual review of the progress made against the year four (4) actions of
Council’s Domestic Animal Management Plan 2017–21
2. notes a full review and development of a new four-year Domestic Animal Management
Plan will be undertaken in 2021–22 financial year with community engagement
commencing in October 2021.
CARRIED
Page No. 30

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.11 UPDATE ON UNDERGROUNDING POWERLINES
City Planning and Amenity - Development Services
File No: PSF/21/28 – Doc No: DOC/21/282820
It is recorded that Ms Caroline Lawton (on behalf of Beaumaris Conservation Society)
submitted a written statement in relation to this item.
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. notes the initiatives undertaken in both advocacy and investigations into the
undergrounding of powerlines
2. commences the development of a policy relating to facilitating the undergrounding
of powerlines which will consider:
a. the prioritisation of undergrounding powerlines in association with:
i. Council projects
ii. public open space
iii. the general street network
b. the funding models and the associated criteria
3. receives the draft policy to be presented to the June 2022 Council Meeting for further
consideration.
CARRIED
Page No. 31

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.12 RESPONSE TO NOTICE OF MOTION – 316 – PRESSURE CLEANING OF
MAJOR ACTIVITY CENTRES
Environment, Recreation and Infrastructure - City Assets & Projects
File No: PSF/21/21 – Doc No: DOC/21/292717
Moved: Cr El Mouallem Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council increases pressure cleaning from a quarterly to monthly frequency in the Major
Activity Centres.
CARRIED
Procedural Motion
Moved Cr Martin Seconded Cr del Porto
That the meeting be adjourned for 10 minutes.
CARRIED
It is recorded that the meeting was adjourned at 9:17pm.
Procedural Motion
Moved Cr del Porto Seconded Cr Castelli
That the meeting be resumed.
CARRIED
It is recorded that the meeting was resumed at 9:27pm.
Page No. 32

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.13 SUBMISSION TO DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND COMMUNITY
SAFETY - DECRIMINALISATION OF SEX WORK IN VICTORIA
City Planning and Amenity - Urban Strategy
File No: PSF/21/27 – Doc No: DOC/21/316640
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. endorses the officer submission in response to the ‘Discussion Paper – Decriminalising
Sex Work’ prepared by the Victorian State Government
2. receives a report on any relevant implications of legislation changes and its implications
for Bayside.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.13 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Page No. 33

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.14 DRAFT PROCUREMENT POLICY 2021
Corporate Services - Commercial Services
File No: PSF/21/26 – Doc No: DOC/21/286583
Moved: Cr El Mouallem Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. endorses the draft Procurement Policy for the purpose of undertaking
community engagement, with the inclusion of the following wording to read:
a) section 5.7 Tender Evaluation and Negotiation to include the words “To
ensure value for money, assessment of the best price, subject to an agreed
variance will be used. The tolerances will be set in the supporting procedures”.
b) section 7. Monitoring Review and Audit to include the words “This Policy is to
be reviewed annually by the Audit and Risk Committee”.
2. receives a report at the December 2021 Council meeting to consider the outcomes
of community engagement and seeking to adopt the Procurement Policy.
CARRIED
Page No. 34

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.15 ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF COUNTRY
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/315916
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. adopts the revised Acknowledgement of Country as outlined in the report
2. amends the Civic and Ceremonial Protocols document to incorporate these
changes
3. promotes the change to the community through Let’s Talk Bayside and Council’s
website
4. continues to maintain its connection with the Boonwurrung Land and Sea Foundation
given previous contribution and involvement with the municipality over the past 27
years.
CARRIED
Page No. 35

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.16 CEO EMPLOYMENT MATTERS - IMPLEMENTING THE REQUIREMENTS
OF THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACT 2020
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/315639
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. adopts the CEO Employment and Remuneration Policy
2. amends the name of the Committee from CEO’s Employment Matters Committee to
CEO’s Employment Matters Advisory Committee
3. notes that these documents fulfil Council’s legislative requirements.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.16 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Page No. 36

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.17 CEO'S EMPLOYMENT MATTERS ADVISORY COMMITTEE -
APPOINTMENT OF INDEPENDENT CHAIRPERSON
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/315732
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council appoints Ms Topsy Petchey from TePee Pty Ltd as the Independent
Chairperson of the CEO’s Employment Matters Advisory Committee for a three-year term
with an annual review for the term of appointment commencing 27 October 2021.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.17 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Page No. 37

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.18 NAMING OF LANEWAY AT THE REAR OF 1-19 KEITH STREET,
HAMPTON EAST
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/316089
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. approves the use of the name ‘Oval Lane’ for the laneway at the rear of 1-19 Keith
Street, Hampton East
2. advises the Registrar of Geographical Names of Council’s decision
3. advises abutting owners of the laneway once advice has been received from the
Registrar of Geographical Names and the laneway has been formally gazetted
4. erects appropriate street name signage once the laneway name has been formally
gazetted.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.18 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Page No. 38

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.19 PROPOSED SALE OF LAND AT 126 CARPENTER STREET, BRIGHTON
Corporate Services - Commercial Services
File No: PSF/21/26 – Doc No: DOC/21/312524
Moved: Cr El Mouallem Seconded: Cr Samuel-King MBBS
That Council:
1. in accordance with the Local Government Act 2020 (the Act) resolves to sell the subject
land at 126 Carpenter Street, Brighton, outlined in red in Attachment 1, to the adjoining
owner of 124 Carpenter Street, Brighton, for $300,000 plus GST
2. authorises the Director Corporate Services to undertake the necessary procedural steps
to sell the subject land via private treaty and retain all easements on title as required in
favour of the appropriate Authority
3. advises the parties who lodged a submission or provided feedback in relation to the
proposal of Council’s decision
4. places the proceeds of the sale in a reserve to be utilised for the future acquisition of
land or creation of new open spaces by Council.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Hanna El Mouallem and Jo Samuel-King MBBS (2)
AGAINST: Crs Alex del Porto, Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli (Deputy
Mayor), Fiona Stitfold and Laurence Evans OAM (Mayor) (5)
LOST
Moved: Cr del Porto Seconded: Cr Martin
That Council:
1. in accordance with the Local Government Act 2020 (the Act) resolves to sell the Subject
Land at 126 Carpenter Street, Brighton, outlined in red in Attachment 1, to the adjoining
owner of 124 Carpenter Street, Brighton, for $300,000 plus GST
2. authorises the Director Corporate Services to undertake the necessary procedural steps
to sell the subject land via private treaty and retain all easements on title as required in
favour of the appropriate Authority
3. advises the parties who lodged a submission or provided feedback in relation to the
proposal of Council’s decision.
The Motion was PUT and a DIVISION was called:
DIVISION: FOR: Crs Alex del Porto, Clarke Martin, Sonia Castelli (Deputy
Mayor), Fiona Stitfold and Laurence Evans OAM (Mayor) (5)
AGAINST: Crs Hanna El Mouallem and Jo Samuel-King MBBS (2)
CARRIED
Page No. 39

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.20 PROPOSED DISCONTINUANCE AND SALE OF ROAD ADJOINING 25
BAY ROAD, SANDRINGHAM
Corporate Services - Commercial Services
File No: PSF/21/26 – Doc No: DOC/21/316971
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. in accordance with Section 206 and Clause 3 of Schedule 10 of the Local
Government Act 1989 (the Act), resolves to discontinue the subject road adjoining
25 Bay Road, Sandringham, outlined in blue in Attachment 1, and sell the subject
road to the adjoining owner of 25 Bay Road, Sandringham for $15,000 plus GST
2. authorises the Director Corporate Services to undertake the necessary procedural
steps to discontinue and sell the subject road via private treaty and retain all
easements on title as required in favour of the appropriate Authority
3. directs a public notice to be published in the Victoria Government Gazette.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.20 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Page No. 40

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.21 CONTRACT CON/21/39 CONSTRUCTION OF TULIP STREET
BASKETBALL COURTS AND CAR PARK
Corporate Services - Commercial Services
File No: PSF/21/20 – Doc No: DOC/21/240148
Moved: Cr Martin Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. awards Contract CON/21/39 Tulip Street Basketball Courts & Car Park to Lloyd Group
Pty Ltd (ABN 96 069 674 479) for the lump sum price of $8,314,500.00 (excl. GST) and
$9,145,950.00 (including GST)
2. authorises the Chief Executive Officer to sign all necessary documentation related to
Contract CON/21/39 Tulip Street Basketball Courts and Car Park
3. advises the unsuccessful tenderers accordingly
4. notes that the Stage Two landscape works do not form part of this Contract and will be
procured separately and funded from the Environmentally Sustainable Design reserve.
CARRIED
Page No. 41

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
10.22 COUNCIL ACTION AWAITING REPORT
Corporate Services - Governance
File No: PSF/21/23 – Doc No: DOC/21/310529
Moved: Cr Castelli (Deputy Mayor) Seconded: Cr del Porto
That Council:
1. notes the Council Action Awaiting Report
2. notes the deletion of action 10.7 – 21/8/2018 given the matter has been incorporated
into the review of the Early Years Infrastructure Plan.
CARRIED
NOTE: Item 10.22 was CARRIED as part of a block motion.
Page No. 42

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
11. Reports by Delegates
1. Association of Bayside Municipalities – Cr Fiona Stitfold and Cr Clarke Martin joint
representatives indicated that a meeting has not been held recently. However, it was
noted that the Mayor wrote a letter to the ABM under the signature of 10 ABM Member
councils requesting an urgent meeting of the ABM to discuss the strategic plan and an
advocacy program to consider leading up to the next State Government election. Cr
Martin indicated that a meeting has been arranged to be held in the next few weeks.
2. Metropolitan Transport Forum – Cr Sonia Castelli attended the meeting. The key
focus of the October Metropolitan Transport Forum was a presentation from Vicinity
Centres on the Caulfield-Rowville Trackless Rapid Transit (TRT) proposal. It is a joint
proposal by Monash University and Vicinity Centres to create an innovative transport
solution for Melbourne’s South-Eastern corridor. Using dedicated lanes along a 19km
route from Caulfield to Rowville (via Chadstone and Monash University Clayton), the
project would offer a tram solution without expensive infrastructure such as tracks and
overhead wires. The group are working with Councils along the route to progress the
proposal.
3. Municipal Association of Victoria – Cr Alex del Porto attended the MAV Regional
meeting with Mayors’ MAV Representatives and CEOs. The meeting briefed
representatives on Planning Reforms and Social Housing. It was also noted that the
MAV and SECCA have joined together to support an advocacy program regarding
Climate Change across the sector. It should be noted that this was a Bayside initiative
through a MAV State Council motion. Cr del Porto also advised the meeting that the
MAV President is still waiting for a meeting with the Planning Minister given several
attempts over the past 7 months.
4. Inner South Metropolitan Mayors’ Forum – The Mayor, Cr Laurence Evans OAM
indicated that the Forum has not met.
5. Metropolitan Local Government Waste Forum – Cr Clarke Martin indicated that the
MLGWF is slowly wrapping up and will be replaced by a State Government new
authority.
6. South East Councils Climate Change Alliance – Crs Clarke Martin and Fiona Stitfold
indicated that a meeting has not yet been held, although the group is very active in their
communications and have arranged for many informative webinars to occur on a range
of issues.
Moved: Cr Samuel-King Seconded: Cr Martin
That the Reports by Delegates be received and noted.
CARRIED
Page No. 43

Bayside City Council Ordinary Council Meeting - 26 October 2021
12. Urgent Business
There were no items of Urgent Business submitted to the meeting.
13. Notices of Motion
There were no Notices of Motion submitted to the meeting.
The Chief Executive Officer acknowledged that this was the Mayor’s last official Council
Meeting as Chair. The CEO expressed his appreciation to the Mayor on steering the Council
through the first year of a newly elected Council, and also during a pandemic, and for
demonstrating outstanding leadership.
The Mayor declared the meeting closed at 10:08pm.
Page No. 44

